# How to Win in AI Search - Real Data No Hype

* **Expert:** Ryan Law
* **Video ID:** mL1W1SMtTT4
* **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mL1W1SMtTT4
* **Date Published:** 2025-10-28

---

## Transcript

AI search is exploding and it's happening way faster than anyone thought. Think about this. Chad GPT alone gets over 2.5 billion prompts every single day. And allegedly, visitors from Chad GPT are converting much better than those coming from Google.

It feels like a gold rush, right? No wonder your feed is suddenly full of people who want to teach you how to show up in Chad GPT. But can you trust these people? Are they credible?

You never know. That's why I brought in Ryan Law, our very own director of content marketing at Hrex. Ryan and his team have carried out some of the largest studies on AI search, backed by millions of data points we've collected, and he's about to share the most actionable takeaways from these studies. You're about to learn what actually works when it comes to showing up in AI search.

In other words, if you've been waiting for a credible guide to answer engine optimization, this is it. So, keep listening and don't forget to hit like if you want more episodes like this one, >> HRES podcast. >> Hey, Ryan. Uh, back on the podcast.

>> Yes. >> How's it going? >> Yeah, it's going very, very good. Yeah, I must have done a good job last time to be invited back.

So, so the idea behind this episode as we already discussed with you, AI search is all the hype in our industry right now understandably because uh AI chat bots are gaining more and more traction. More and more people are using them. So, as marketers, we want to know how to show up in those AI chatbots. And you and your team uh including our data scientists from HFS uh have completed a lot of research studies uh studying what is happening in AI search uh which matrix correlates with correlate with which matrix how it is similar how it is different from conventional search and all that and we've been we've been publishing dozens of studies for the past six to eight months on Href's blog and we were sharing some of these snippets on LinkedIn and I thought it would be a good idea to colleate everything we know about AI search uh kind of proven datadriven information not just uh opinions and such uh into one podcast episode which is why I ask you to prepare everything we've published on HR's blog so far every everything meaningful maybe maybe not everything but everything that people or marketers or SEO professionals need to know as of today sounds Sounds perfect.

Let's do it. >> Awesome. >> All right. Share my screen.

Cool. So, I think it is worth very very briefly caveing. I think the most important thing to say on this is that like this is a bit of a wild west at the moment, right? And there are lots of people that sound very confident and have very strong ideas about, you know, this is how you optimize for LLMs.

Uh, nobody has all the answers at this point in time. Uh, and I think you should probably be wary of anyone that is completely and utterly confident that they have some shorefire method for appearing in AI search because this is very changeable. A lot of this is quite speculative and uh, yeah, be wary of snake oil salesman I will say. But with that said, you lost us some credibility there.

So, let me reclaim some of it back. I think HX is sitting on the most data. Well, like one of the companies that have the most data to work with and to study. So, uh I am of course biased, but if I would trust some insights and research studies, uh HFS would be one of the companies.

So, yeah, let's go. Let's see what we have. >> All right, cool. Um I think there's a good way of approaching this entire topic and it's thinking from first principles.

There are actually not that many ways in which you can influence your visibility within AI search within an LLM. Uh obviously one of them is increasing your visibility within training data. Uh we know all these models are trained on vast corpasses of web data. You know they they scrape the web, they look at Google books, the common crawl data set and they update that data from time to time.

So if you can do stuff to have your brand and your website and your content appear more often in that training data, theoretically you can be recommended more often. You would have better visibility. Um these models update periodically kind of every 6 months or so they seem to update their training data. I think the limitation of this is there's not that much you can actually do to influence how often you appear in this data.

They're already crawling the web. You're already in it in a bunch of places. is this is probably not the most actionable thing you could uh do to improve visibility. However, this second point I think is much much more useful and much more important and that is increasing your visibility in rag data.

Uh so LLMs use we've talked about this retrieval augmented generation where they need to go out and find new information where their training data does not suffice to answer a query. >> Basically they do searches I I don't like over complicating things. rag retrieval agumented generation. Let's just say they they search the web.

They use some search APIs. Uh sometimes Google, sometimes Bing, some sometimes Yep. we have Yep. And they think Ditri is about to release search API that others can use.

So LLMs or AI chatbots basically search the web uh like you can do manually. Yeah. >> Yeah. Exactly that.

And that's good news for us because we know how to appear within search. We've been doing that for years. That is SEO. That is content marketing.

So that's a great mechanism for us. And the last one which is briefly worth touching upon is basically black hat. There are people out there advocating for black hat things. There are temporary ways you can boost your visibility in a particular conversation or model.

I don't think that's worth any actual legitimate brand considering to do longterm because it doesn't last for long and it causes more trouble than it's worth. So with all of these in mind, >> one thing, >> one thing I would add here is that actually increasing your visibility in training data and increasing your visibility in uh those kind of uh sources or citations we call them that AI chatbots would pull from the web is essentially the same tactics. You just need to see like where your competitors are mentioned when where you are mentioned where your industry is mentioned and you have to get mentions there because then if uh AI chatbot would do a search and find those pages and create their answer based on what they see on those pages uh this is one thing but if some of the uh AI providers will decide to retrain their entire model on a more recent snapshot of the web they will use essentially the same pages. So you're killing two birds with one stone essentially.

is just appearing in uh uh AI answers that are not using any web search. uh might take longer because uh I think right now all these AI companies are kind of wary of uh retraining their data because a lot of the content of the on the web is created by AI and I think there's some concept of AI model collapse or something is when like AI is being trained on AI content through like multiple cycles and it just generates some bad results. So yeah, it's it's interesting what what would be happening with the kind of with the training data stuff, but essentially it's not that you have to use different tactics for those things. You you do the same thing.

You appear like on on credible websites, but yeah, let let's continue. >> Well, that segus very nicely to what I think is probably the most useful discreet tactic you can do, and that is building off-site mentions. Uh, a big part of how LLMs understand what your brand is about and when it should recommend it and the context it should talk about you is based on where you appear in its training data and where you appear on the web. What topics are you commonly mentioned alongside?

What other brands are you mentioned alongside? Um, uh, I think Patrick Stokes has been referring to this as the era of off- page SEO. Like in some ways the content on your own site is not as valuable as the content about you on other pages on the web. Uh and these don't even have to be linked to offer value.

Like there's still obviously tons of value in a backlink. But now there's for LLMs in particular a lot of value to just being mentioned without the link because the text itself is useful for training these models. And we did indeed test this with a bit of research. Um, so we looked at the factors that correlate with the amount of times a brand appears in AI overviews, tested tons of different things, and by far the uh strongest correlation, very very strong correlation, uh, almost 0.67 was branded web mentions.

So if your brand is mentioned in a ton of different places on the web, that correlates very highly with your brand being mentioned in lots of AI conversations as well. And one of the best ways to go about doing that is to look for the domains in your industry that are most commonly cited by AI search models. Uh they all seem to have their own kind of preferences for where they go and prioritize getting information from. Uh userenerated content is a huge one.

You know, everyone's talking about Reddit at the moment and how Reddit is hugely visible in traditional search, but it's also hugely visible in AI search as well. So, conversations about your brand, about your products, they're very likely to get cited. Similar story with Curo as well. Um, and third party review sites as well.

Uh, quite famously, you know, G2, uh, they've suffered as many brands have from diminishing organic traffic, but their visibility in AI search is huge at the moment. So, you know, conversations, pages, posts on G2 or CNET or even Forbes about your brand commonly get mentioned in AI search a lot. Uh, and a very similar story for YouTube as well. Uh, YouTube transcripts, YouTube videos get recommended very very often.

These are all great places to go and get your brand talked about and mentioned and discussed on the internet. Uh, and obviously we have a tool that does exactly that. actually helps you find the most commonly cited domains. Um, a good example here, you know, if you put in a a topic like wild camping, which is something I do in my little free time.

>> I think we call it niche, like in brand raider, we say specify a niche, right? Like in the UI. >> Yeah, I think so. This is the old UI.

I'm guilty of not updating it. It looks much prettier and more useful now. Um yeah, if you put in whatever niche you're interested in, um you can see not only the top domains that get mentioned most often across all of the, you know, thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of conversations we have indexed, uh you can also see the individual pages that get most commonly mentioned. Obviously, if you can get your brand on those pages, yeah, immediately your AI visibility is going to shoot up in a pretty dramatic way.

Finally, uh just before jumping uh on this call with you, I was uh drafting a post on LinkedIn with exactly that uh to show uh because citations kind of are the new backlinks in the AI search era and you want to know in your industry what are the most cited websites, what are the most cited pages. So, Brand Raider is perfect for that because like you plug any industry, any keyword, any topic or any your brand, competitor brand and you instantly get a list of thousands of websites that are being cited uh by AI. So, you have uh a lot to work with right away instantly. >> Yeah, absolutely love it.

So, we covered briefly I guess anything you want to talk about on the mention side of things? anything you we didn't cover? >> I wanted to uh again draw a parallel between conventional SEO and this new AI SEO because uh you were talking about the kind of era of off- page SEO and the importance of mentions on other websites. So this was actually my common advice to anyone who was saying that oh SEO takes time for new websites.

I wouldn't recommend to invest in SEO too much because you need to build your domain authority blah blah blah blah blah. But SEO like search engine optimization means that people have to find you somehow. Why is it limited to your website only? So my advice usually for people who uh put put forward an argument it takes time or you need like high domain authority.

I just say go to the websites that already rank for keywords and topics that you want to appear for and figure out how to get mentioned there. Maybe like it's about striking a partnership, maybe it's about an affiliate deal, maybe it's about an adver advertisement. So there are a lot of websites that are already getting traffic for the the topics, the searches that are related to what your brand does, what your product does. go there and get mentioned there and you'll get kind of this I I call it secondhand search traffic.

People would would visit uh some other website from Google but this website would be mentioning you so you'll get benefit out of this. So the same principle applies now to AI search but it just works a bit differently because uh AI tools they need to see you mentioned on a lot of websites so that when they pull information from these websites in this aggregate kind of a recap of what they learned that they would create for you as an answer uh you would still be mentioned. But yeah it's like it's a common tactic. it just uh slightly changes uh like how it works kind of on the back end.

But yeah, the same thing that you have have been doing like 5 years ago, 10 years ago, you have to still be doing. >> I think we see that a lot with all of AI search optimization, right? The tactics are pretty similar, but sometimes the motivation has changed a little bit, the underlying causes for doing it. Yeah fundamentally.

>> Yeah, but I think secondhand search traffic, not a lot of people were talking about. It's not it's not a common advice in our industry for some reason. I don't know why. So, I'm actually happy that with AI search, so much focus is falling on kind of properties that you don't own and you have to work with them, not just like with your own website.

>> Very cool. Okay, cool. Discrete tactic number two. Uh optimizing LLM preferred content.

Something we have seen very clearly in all the research we've done is that uh AI search AI systems do prefer to send traffic to certain types of pages. Uh and the theory would therefore go that if those pages are getting surfaced a lot in AI search, you should spend more time and energy on those pages, updating them, improving them, making sure they're consistent with your brand, maybe making more of those types of pages. Now there's an obvious caveat which uh attributable traffic from AI assistants is not the whole picture. Like most people their entire buying journey can virtually happen without ever clicking a link and you won't see that in your web analytics but those that you can see that's probably a useful data point to look at and start thinking about some kind of optimization there.

Uh and we yeah AI traffic is still growing albeit from a small number to a less small number. um it's still it is growing a lot at the moment. Some of the research we conducted, we actually looked at the basically the types of pages most people went to and were referred to from AI search and we looked at the engrams. So the little fragments in the URL of the page to see if any common page types kind of popped out at us.

Some very very common themes here. Obviouslyformational content, blogs and guides cited very heavily. Probably not too unusual. we already create a lot of that content.

I was surprised to see how often uh comparison content was sending traffic. Uh so best top versus any page that has these kind of product comparison terms in the URL seems quite heavily cited and relied upon by LLMs and core site pages. Uh you know traditional search doesn't always send a ton of traffic to your kind of homepage, your navigation, your about page. uh LLM use it a lot as they site and try and back up the things they say.

And another bit of research we did, we actually looked at two samples of traffic. So we looked at a sample of traffic sent by AI search to websites and a sample of traffic sent by traditional search. And we looked at how that traffic distribution differed. And I found this super interesting.

Um, LLMs were much more likely to send traffic to those core website pages as we talked about, also to the documents on your website. All those kind of dusty PDFs you have indexed on your website that get no search traffic. They can actually be a sizable source of uh traffic from LLMs because they're treated like any other uh page in that data set. It's just words on a page to them.

Um, and research. We obviously create tons of research content at HFS and something we see is we get cited really often for that. Uh these models are always looking for actual data that they can uh go and reference and back up the claims that they're saying and we get a lot of that traffic to our research studies in particular and video content as well. Uh proportionally about twice as many visits went to videos from LLMs than they did uh from traditional search.

And the inverse of this is also true. There are some page types that get tons of traffic from traditional search and LLM's AR systems just don't care about uh interactive tools. They're not particularly useful within the interface of a chat conversation. So, they don't seem to get a lot of traffic.

Um, and listings collections e-commerce navigation, this whole category of pages that are very good for people in traditional search trying to find products, they don't serve that same purpose in LLMs. They get very little traffic. Now, I want to be a bit wary of saying, you know, this is how you optimize a page for uh AI search because I think there's a lot of like misinformation circulating on this topic. But there are a few things that do seem to have some benefit.

Probably the strongest factor we've seen is uh content freshness. Uh again, we did a very very big study. We looked at I think 17 million citations to see what the average age of a URL was. Uh comparing different citations from different LLM platforms and also the average age of organic search results.

Um and what we found chat GPT copilot Gemini they vastly prefer pages that are fresher and newer than pages that are commonly referenced in organic search. Now, I I don't think you should go away and suddenly, you know, update every single page on your website every day. I don't think that's good advice. I think this is probably more reflective of the types of queries that trigger rag.

Um, if a query can be answered by the model's own original knowledge, it will do that. It doesn't need to go and find something on the web. Whereas, if you're asking something that is about a new topic, something it doesn't understand, it's more likely to go and run a search for that. and it's more likely to find quite new content because it's not in its training data.

Um, but it does seem that they do prefer fresh content in a big way. Um, and then very simple writing things. People talk about chunking and they get all very technical. I think a much easier way of approaching this is just uh writing things in simple straightforward ways that are easy for both people and AI assistants to understand.

Uh, I love this idea of bluff. Bottom line up front. Always open with the clearest, most succinct articulation of your idea in every section, every header. Make it easy for readers to follow.

Make it very easy for LM to understand what your page and your content is about. uh using declarative sentences, so confident opinions, not saying things in uncertain, unclear terms, but being very straightforward and saying in definitive terms, you know, this is the fact as we see it. Um, we've already seen this really helps with uh optimizing for featured snippets, that kind of thing. Um, and yeah, this next one, few subject predicate hops is a very pretentious way of saying don't write really long meandering sentences where you know, you start talking about one thing up here, you talk for five sentences and then you conclude your point.

Make sure that your sentences are very straightforward, the structure is very clear because if it gets broken up by the chunking process of an LLM, that meaning might be lost. entity richness um actually evolve last year Bernard Hang from clear scope gave this amazing talk and one of the things he showed that was um a lot of AI assistants AI outputs seem to prefer entityrich text they understand text by looking at the amount of entities in it and the relationships between those entities and he found quite a strong correlation between the more topics you mention the more brands the more discrete contained things uh and the likelihood it would be cited in feature snippets or a overviews and that kind of thing. Uh and global document context is just the idea that if you have a very very long page uh at regular intervals remind the reader and AI assistants what the page is about. Provide context to that very long document in case it gets chopped up into pieces that you can't then follow.

Yeah, I think this is all very kind of complicated stuff, but a lot of it boils down to simple, clear writing with a very clear purpose. Is there anything you want to say on that, Tim? Cuz I feel like you're a bit allergic to some of these terms. Uh yeah, I don't like over complicating stuff uh as usual, but uh yeah, I think it makes sense.

Like just good writing essentially, good writing. uh and uh two things that I was thinking of uh in regards to this section about the the pages that AI uh likes to be citing. First of all uh I was looking at at your graph with types of content and I was I was expecting to see help there uh in the list of like blog etc on the previous slide. You had it on the previous slide but I didn't see help.

Somehow it probably didn't get into the uh types of content that that you were checking for because I think it should probably be top 10. I would imagine that people uh in AI chatbots they they might be asking very specific questions about uh I don't know products, services, etc. And if those products have uh a well-maintained help section, I think our help section at HFS is pretty good. and it gets quite decent search traffic itself uh just from people trying to find an answer in Google and discovering our uh help section pages.

I think that would be even more the case for uh AI assistants uh because yeah people are more inclined to ask them kind of more complicated more contextual questions. So it's interesting that I'm not seeing help here. And another thing I wanted to plug another feature that we recently released because in terms of updating the mosts cited pages by AI from your website, you can just put your website in HF site explorer and right now like the first widget that you see is the number of citations uh in AI overviews in chat GPT in perplexity blah blah blah. So you can literally click on those numbers and you can see all the URLs of your website that we that we saw being cited by uh different AI chatbots and then you can look through those pages.

I think we might I don't remember if we have the last updated date uh on that content but I think uh it's it's easy to do. You can you can just export this list of URLs and then you can quickly scrape uh your own website to see like what's the last updated date of all those pages and simply keep them fresh. So uh yeah site explorer we uh like I said citations are the new backlinks so to say and knowing which pages of your website of your own website AI likes to site uh is very useful information. So yeah, use site explorer, find all the URLs that we saw AI chatbots are citing from your website and make sure those are uh well written, updated, have enough information about whatever you want to say.

Uh look for gaps because the the fact that some pages are cited uh doesn't show you what else you're missing. So maybe again you can put your competitors uh see what what pages uh of their website AI chatbots are citing uh and that that might give you ideas of what content is missing from your website which could be useful for uh AI chatbots. >> Oh we have a whole I'll talk through that in a minute actually. Uh gap content gaps.

Don't worry it's all good. Yeah this is >> um so this is a very quick one. We can cover this very uh quickly. hallucinated URLs.

Um, something that, you know, we all know LLMs hallucinate. They make information up in certain situations. They can also make uh URLs up. Uh, and actually when we looked at this for our website, almost 4% of all the visits that we during the time period we looked at from LLMs went to madeup URLs, just completely non-existent URLs.

quite often stuff like hfs.com/keywords which is the type of URL you would probably expect our website to have but it does not exist. Um and actually we very very easily now we have uh in web analytics are uh free for up to a million page views uh website analytics tool uh we have in two clicks you can set this up and monitor this for yourself. Now we have a dedicated filter for finding hallucinated URLs which is very very cool. Um, so instead of doing this very long and convoluted process, uh, using app scripts and all sorts of things, uh, you can just click that and find it.

But basically, you're looking for pages that, um, get visits from LLM traffic, uh, but return a 404 status because there's a very good chance that those URLs just don't exist. They're just made up by the, uh, AI model. Um, so we talked a bit about the training data earlier. I think there is one aspect of this which uh is worth considering actually.

There are some novel sources of training data that are used to train LLMs that traditionally do not have that much of an impact on organic search and it may be worth kind of optimizing these data sources. Um so probably the best example of this is GitHub. Uh basically every GitHub repo that your company possesses is almost guaranteed to be trained on uh by LLMs. That's just one of their core data sets.

Now, uh, and actually making sure that you have lots of context and information in there. You explain what the repos are about. You have, you know, references to your brand and your products, other links to helpful content, that kind of thing. That actually could ostensibly have a benefit to your visibility in LLM generally.

Uh, obviously, if any company has a Wikipedia page, that is guaranteed to be trained upon. And even some more obscure data sources. Uh, I've worked with plenty of companies that published original research papers. they are very likely to get trained upon.

So any way your brand is mentioned within there is going to influence your visibility. Uh patents that you publish even books obviously Tim you know we've published books in the past we want to do more of that. They are things that get trained and read by LLMs and can genuinely impact uh brand visibility. Now this is the thing we were just uh talking about uh like entity gaps.

Maybe again very pretentious way of saying it but uh this is like content gap analysis but for the AI era basically. Um obviously AI assistant they try and mention your brand based on its understanding of what it is. What is it well known for? What does it offer?

What are the characteristics of your brand? Uh and one of the ways it understands that is this idea of co-mentions. It looks for the words that are used in relationship and nearby to your brand. So you know Patagonia uh outdoor clothing brand it is commonly mentioned alongside the product nanopouff hoodie and that is in turn often mentioned alongside words like wild camping or backpacking or lightweight.

Uh and this happens on you know thousands of pages across the web and in aggregate this helps the model understand what that brand and those products are actually about. But it's very possible to have quite a substantial disconnect between the topics you would like to be visible for and you would expect to be visible for and the topics you actually are visible for and uh LLMs actually understand to be related to your brand. And one of the best ways to really viscerally and quickly see this in action is to look at some do some competitor analysis. So use brand radar for this.

Um, one of my favorite things to do is pick a, you know, your brand, the brand you're interested in. Uh, compare it to your biggest competitor and see all the conversations where your competitors are mentioned and you are not because this is quite often a really good understanding that the, you know, LLMs do not understand that aspect of your brand. This is a good chance for you to create content to close that gap. So, a great example here, Fj Raven versus Patagonia, another great outdoor brand.

Um we found the topic uh basically school backpacks. This is something that Fj Raven absolutely dominates. Every like search, every query about this FJ Raven is highly up there. Patagonia is completely absent from that.

And potentially there's no good reason for that, right? They both make, you know, good quality long-lasting backpacks. This is an occasion where if Patagonia wanted to be visible for these topics, they could create content for it on their site and also offsite on all those different websites we mentioned earlier to help the AI develop that understanding that actually yes, Patagonia should be mentioned in this context that is highly relevant for us. Um, very similar to what you do, you know, content gap analysis with traditional search.

What do your competitors rank for that you don't that you would like to rank for? create content on that topic on your website and on other parts of the web as well. What I love about this the most is that uh to the best of my knowledge brand raider is the only tool where you can do this kind of uh I know content gap entity gap analysis because with uh all other kind of AI visibility trackers that we've seen they uh require you to give them a list of prompts. So you're already creating bias by selecting which topics you want to check your brand for, which prompts you want to check your brand for.

And typically they allow like a few hundreds of prompts and that's about it. So you're limited to the data that you are giving to the AI tracking tool in the first place. While brand raider is based on millions of existing prompts. So you might be surprised uh with the prompts that your brand is actually showing up for or not showing up for.

So yeah, I think brand raider is is quite a unique tool in that sense uh because you don't have to uh set prompts in advance. Uh we'll have that possibility as well like if if there are certain key prompts that you want to make sure that you will nail over time and you want to see your progress. But for studying your visibility and for comparing your visibility to that of your competitors, having a large uh kind of index or database of prompts uh to to research uh gives you a lot of advantage. Absolutely.

So another very simple, very quick one here. Uh avoid too much JavaScript. So last time I looked into this fairly recently, most AI crawlers still do not actually render JavaScript. So although you know modern search today is actually pretty good at understanding JavaScript heavy websites, they can access all that content.

Google does a great job, AI search is not as mature uh by any stretch of the imagination. So if you have very important pages with very important information and products on them that rely heavily on JavaScript, there's a good chance they're basically invisible uh within AI search. I will say this is probably going to change. What we have seen is that AI crawlers, AI search, it lags behind traditional search because you know we've masses of years of head start developing that technology, but they are catching up very quickly.

Uh I think back in May when we looked this was Cloudflare data. Um about 25% of all bot requests around the world came from AI bots and that was growing increasingly and maybe that's what we've just seen happen you know with Google deprecating the numbum parameter they just did. Uh there's a lot of bot traffic on the world. They're scaling up their infrastructure very quickly.

So rendering JavaScript they'll probably solve that at some point fairly soon but for the time being. Plus there's opportunity for yep uh href's own search engine because we can just uh feed to uh AI chatbots not not the URLs for them to scrape themselves but we already have the content of all these URLs so they can use our search API to get full content of the pages that we have in our own index. So we'll see if any of the uh AI chatbots would want to capitalize using uh yep search would be interesting. >> Cool.

This is the last kind of big substantial tactic. Um, so this has been very trendy and very hype recently. This idea of fanout queries. >> Oh, I like those buzzwords.

>> Ah, I know. They're very popular, aren't they? Um, we did some research recently. Well, Louise on our blog team did tons of research.

Um, obviously when uh an AI assistant goes to a search index like Google and runs a search, the obvious question is what is it searching for? How is it actually finding that information? My first thought was always, is it just entering the user prompt verbatim into Google search and retrieving whatever results come back? And it seems like no, that's not the case at all.

Um, what we found um only 12% of the links cited by chat GBT and Gemini and Copilot were actually in the top 10 results for the user prompt that was entered into the AI interface. There's a different process happening here and it's what people call fan out queries. Instead of using the user uh prompt to go and search, the AI thinks about that prompt and it says right what simpler Google searches can I go and run to retrieve the information I need, combine it together and give a good response because we we all use AI in a very conversational way. You know, the average length of a query is something like 25 words, I think some researchers showed.

uh that's not always good for googling. So it generates these query fan outs instead. Um and this is already gone now, but very briefly there was a window of time where you could actually see the fan out queries that were generated in chat GPT web search via uh like the JSON response they were sending. So if somebody entered uh what are the best cheap sunglasses of 2025, that wasn't the question that was then Google searched.

It was stuff like men affordable sunglasses review 2025, best cheap men's sunglasses 2025. They're obviously quite similar, but they are different. Um, and actually even perplexing. >> Someone mentioned that uh it could also be the reason why we were seeing uh those inflated impressions in Google search console, right?

Because those AI chatbots like you're doing one search, they're doing what three, five searches. And this is because like so many millions of people are using those AI chatbots. This is why impressions in Google search console went up for for a lot of people a lot of websites. Well, at least there's this theory theory.

>> Yeah. Yeah. I think D research does something like 10 to 25 uh you know query fan outs at a time which is crazy, right? From one user input.

So makes sense. Um yeah, and the Plexity still lets you see these. Um, and obviously I wouldn't suggest going and creating a page for every one of these fanout queries because um, you know, without actual clickstream data, which as far as I know, nobody has at the moment, we don't know how often individual specific queries are being searched by real people, right? It's just guesswork at this point.

I think this is more useful for understanding how these query fans are constructed. Um, and you know, if you want to create a content cluster of around this topic, you would frame it in this kind of way. I think the the main actionable takeaway from knowing how uh AI chatbots search the web uh that they create variations of search queries and do a few of them and the fact that the URLs that they're then picking to give you an answer only intersect with the kind of top uh ranking URLs for kind of the the general topic in Google. only 12% of them uh intersect.

It means that there's more room for different opinions. Previously, how the SEO industry worked, what what what did it mean to optimize a page for Google? You have to make it look similar to the top ranking pages. So, the industry was going towards similarity.

So the more similar your page to the pages that are already ranking high in Google, the more you reward it with traffic for this, but not anymore. Now, because uh there's so much variance in those queries because AI is generating a lot of different searches for you, there is a chance for your page to show up even when it's not kind of following the conventional kind of structure and uh uh content of other pages. So, you still get a chance to get visits and to get mentions by being different. And this is what I what I love about it.

You you no longer need to look at the top ranking pages necessarily to create your content. Just create your content your way. And who knows, maybe your opinions and the way you phrase things uh is what those AI chatbots would be picking up. Again, again, subject to testing.

So, like do that on your own website and see how it works for you. But I think this is where it is going. >> I've always dreamed of a world where good content would be rewarded. But hopefully maybe this will be the dream coming to fruition.

We'll have to see. Um, in the complete opposite of that, my last point is about avoiding spam because I think some another way people are taking a lot of this information is that uh I've seen lots of companies publish 20,000word markdown formatted AI generated pages with no links, no images like obviously very purely designed for uh machines, for robots, for LLM ingestion and not for people and I am seeing these get cited and get referenced in conversations a lot of times. But I think this is still very shortsighted for a few reasons. For one, Google itself is much less susceptible to that type of gaming.

It has many years of practice of filtering out that kind of spammy content and doesn't always get it right, but it generally does. And Google is by far still the most dominant traffic source and is still relied on very heavily uh for rag and all these kinds of things. I also think other AI assistants are going to have to become more sophisticated in terms of how they process and choose content because otherwise SEOs like us will probably ruin them for other people with all this type of content. Um, and the most important thing, is it even valuable being cited for uh one of these queries if somebody then clicks that link to your website and sees spammy, awful markdown content that nobody cares about?

Like, are they going to think positively about you? Are they going to buy something from you? Um, so while it's good to experiment and work out how these tools work, I think we need to avoid this idea that let's just pump out a bunch of AI content on all these topics and see what happens. Uh, I probably don't need to recap all of these, but um, I will say one final like thing I've been thinking about related to this topic that I find quite useful.

I think there are generally two categories uh, that all LLM optimization tactics fall into. One of which is a tactic might be useful in AI search and it is already very useful in traditional search. Like we see a lot of overlap, you know, on-site content creation, getting mentioned in third party content, engaging on Reddit, uh, anything you do in this category is guaranteed to be useful because it's already useful for SEO. And then there's some of these more novel and exciting and exotic things that may be useful in AI search, but we know they have no usefulness in traditional search.

Uh, LLMs.tx txt uh this idea of like chunking in very technical ways. Um a lot of people index on this cuz it's trendy and new and exciting and they get a lot of attention for it. I think if you're trying to grow your brand visibility, do stuff that falls in that first category that also has utility in traditional search because there's tons of stuff that overlap. There's tons of overlap between these two areas.

I think one thing that we didn't cover is that AI search as in AI chatbots like ChatGpt Perplexity Gemini it's not killing traditional Google search. So people who see traffic to their websites dropping, it's not because people are switching to ChatGpt. It's because the freaking Google is displaying AI overviews who are eating traffic from you. And again, uh, quick plug, uh, in HFS, we, uh, have a filter for keywords that display AI overviews.

So, you can plug your own website. You can go to a list of all the keywords that your website is ranking for, and you can filter them by those that do display AI overviews and don't. And uh the chances are if you saw significant drops in your search traffic, it's probably because a lot of the keywords you're ranking for are now displaying AI overviews. So yeah, what we're seeing from the data and Renfishkin did a great study with clickstream data that uh people are still using Google as their kind of default conventional search engine.

At the same time, the adoption of AI chatbots like Chad GPT is growing definitely. I think his numbers where it went from 8% of people uh they studied to like 22% or something. So it kind of quadrupled. But that doesn't affect like that's an additional thing that people using.

People are not migrating from Google to Chad GPT. And this is my my personal observation of my own habits. I'm using Chad GPT but I'm also using Google for a lot of stuff. and you switch between the two.

Sometimes chat GPT would give you an answer. You would take I don't know a brand, a product or something and then you would go to Google uh to find their website to find more information about them because it is more convenient for you. So it's it's very important thing. Do not like put all even though these strategies intersect a lot do not put all your efforts suddenly in AI without caring about search.

Search still works. Google is still there. Yeah. they they are eating traffic from us by displaying their own AI answers, but it's still important.

>> Okay. Uh to wrap up, uh one final note is uh uh I warned Ryan before doing this podcast that uh we're going to show this recording to our technical SEO god uh Patrick Sts who has also been uh very very in the trenches uh with all the research studies. He performed actually some of these research studies himself and he's been following what's happening in the industry. So, uh, Patrick would doublech check if all the statements from myself and Ryan in this episode were correct and factual.

Uh, and probably we'll record a follow-up episode with Patrick, uh, where Patrick would point out some of the things we we've missed or provide additional context to some of the things or even say where we were wrong. And like Ryan said, is a very HF's thing to do uh to kind of doublech checkck ourselves and admit where we were wrong. So yeah, uh if you enjoyed this episode, please subscribe uh to get the next episode with Patrick. Uh if there would be enough uh things that Patrick would find that we didn't say in this episode.

Thank you, Ryan. Uh I guess I'll see you again after some time. See you later, Tim.