# Moving Beyond Old SEO Models in the Age of AI

* **Expert:** Kevin Indig
* **Video ID:** AqAoKGftsSE
* **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AqAoKGftsSE
* **Date Published:** 2026-01-19

---

## Transcript

Hi, I am Gianluca Fiorelli and
welcome back to The Search Session. Today we're going to have a guest that
surely many of you have thaught could be a perfect guest for The Search Session. And actually, he is you are going
to recognize him very, very soon. He, he's now having a work.

He work with G2, he work with Shopify. Right now he is a growth advisor
for very prestigious brand like Snapchat, G2, but also for Ironclad,
AirOps and many other companies. He is partners of a
collective hyper growth. And this person is, Kevin Indig.

Finally at The Search Session. How are you doing? Hello. It's good to be here finally.

So how things are treating you? And how SEO is treating you lately? SEO has been treating me well. I mean, you know, it's a little
bit like a marriage that has existed for a while and has gotten,
know, fresh wings a little bit.

It's been a lot happening
lately and so it's, it's good to be in this game right now. Yes, and especially, it's
it's one year already, almost. It would be in February, one
year from the eruption of AI in every day in every one day life. I mean, in not that was,
it wasn't present before.

But now with AI overview in SERPs,
in search formally announced, et cetera, et cetera, it became woo. Now this is really true. And, and if starting from there, it was
really a rollercoaster of news ideas. sometimes also delusion
from what was coming out.

But surely for, for us, it even more
for businesses, it has been a very, very surprising and never confused
sometimes, but also probably exciting time, maybe more than the last few
years that were, we were somehow commoditized to the classic things of SEO Much more. Much more. Yeah. It's been a wild rollercoaster.

And Gianluca, I have a feeling the
next year are gonna be similar to that. and I think it's going to be even
more, not because, maybe because not, not really from the industry
side of, of a player in AI. Because obviously the, the fight
between Gemini and Google is going to become even more vibrant for
me because I gave give for Lost. I don't know if you agree with me,
but Claude is very, very niche either side also to go very, very niche
and probably it's the right correct decision for someone like an tropic
to, to maintain its own uniqueness and so to be you know, a tool more than
something that all the people use.

And Perplexity has many good things,
but also many flows in my opinion. So I don't know if Perplexity
is going to resist. And let's go. So directly, which one of it, to Google
or Chat GPT, I have a strong opinion that Google is going to be the ultimate
winner because it's too big to fail.

And let's say after the board
experiment, the first Gemini experience. Even also considering AI overview in the
beginning and comparing with how it is AI overview now with experimental web guide
AI mode improving, improving almost daily. I think that Chat GPT has less weapons
to fight with against against Google. So I see translating from classic search
to AI search Google as Google and Chat GPT as the Bing of AI search better than
Bing in terms of volumes and market share.

Not with such a big distance,
but the good second one. I mean, Chat GPT obviously has a very
close partnership with Bing, so it would make sense, you know, for them to also
be the, the, perceived bing of AI search. But look, it's, it's interesting
because last year was not that bullish on Google because, it's very easy for
the incumbents to lose the game, right? So there's this interesting paradox
where you know, people often say, oh, you should bet on the underdog
because, you know, obviously the underdog is in a weaker position.

However, I think it's more interesting
to bet on the incumbent or the winner because they can only lose, right? They cannot gain more. So it's Google's game to
lose in this situation. And as you said, the first couple of
years they were caught very off guard and they were not executing well.

That has very much changed, I would say,
in 2025, especially in the last couple months with the release of, of Gemini
three, which is absolutely amazing and they still have some more to go. So I agree. It's Google's game to lose. I think they're in the absolute strongest
position from all the different layers that that touch on LLMs from perspective,
a data availability perspective, a mind perspective, usage, feedback,
loops, reinforced learning, right?

Like all of these things, all
of these things that matter. Google is the best position to
be in, and yet Chat GPT has over 800 million weekly active users. so what Chat GPT has
is they have momentum. They're seen as the cool new
kid on the block, which can make a big difference, right?

It is surprising how many people,
regular people in my surrounding, in my closer network of family,
friends, and people use Chat GPT. It is absolutely incredible. And so, as a, as, as, as a third point
I think, Chat GPT definitely has more of that subscription readiness from, from
like a, a monetization perspective, right? People are more willing
to pay for Chat GPT.

Now, it's interesting because
Anthropic, as you said, is focused on enterprise and work, and
they're super strong there, right? They're going public next year. I would love to invest. Chat GPT has kind of
the new coolness factor.

They're growing rapidly and I
think their biggest challenge is to introduce an advertising model. I think that would make it interesting
and improve the overall experience. And then on the other hand, Google,
needs to kind of figure out AI monetization, which I think they will
do, but they almost need to figure out how to sell more subscriptions. Right.

And so each of these players is
kind of in an interesting position. Lets see how it shake out. The data shows that Google and Chat GPT
don't seem to cannibalize each other. Right.

It seems like people who use Chat GPT
also use Google and it doesn't seem like there has been a decrease in Google usage,
which I think you can argue a little bit. If that is true, it's interesting
because it would mean it expands the pie for SEO, it means that
we have more surfaces to play on. and increases the overall
value for what we do. So an interesting time, man.

Yes totally. returning to to, to the
race for a AI domination. We've obviously, it's, it's
more, it's not correct. It is not precise, but reminds me
of the race for mobile domination.

Apple, great design, great
interface came first. It could have , been considered
a good kid in the block. And Google in that case
didn't create something. Both, something which
was Android came later.

The first Android version, the
first Android phone were sincerely ugly and not easy to use. But then it was able to create
collaboration with great, great companies like Samsung, for instance. And now Android is dominating. But there is another things, if
you remember, of Android, but Android is the operating system,
not just phone, web, mobile.

It's in television. It's in many, many things. And I think that. If we don't think just that in
terms of SEO search, Google is trying to replicate the same thing
with Gemini, apart from a classic Gemini in every Google application.

But there are specific model for
L specific model for university specific models for almost everything. So monetizing that kind of super
diversification, creating specific models for each type of industry that
can be used in terms of professional use maybe is something that doesn't, seems to me that Chat GPT is
trying to do that kind of evolution. So Chat GPT is going for the big
public and what way you're saying Yes. People now think when things to.

Artificial intelligence and search,
it's associated like directly with Chat GPT, which is a cultural win. If we think, and this is maybe the biggest
problem for Google and coming to, to the advertisement situation, let's say riddle
how to put advertisement in a way that can be recognized as advertisement because
of legal leg, because of legislation, and also in order to not deceive user,
but how, how and where to put it because, it's honestly difficult, especially in
terms of textual use of a chunk, let's say taking a chunk from a landing page,
which is paid, and you have to, to put it, you have to maybe if they can invent
a sort of new paragraph at the end. And where is our recommended this
recommendation from our partners, commercial partners something
like this, this could be an idea. For Google it's easier for other ways
for everything shopping because they can put Gemini with the feed of shopping.

So for, that's why shopping was the
first thing coming out in Google A And do you think that whenever they will
be able to find out how to put ads in the chat box, finally we will have some
sort of proprietary analytics from them because this is the biggest problem. How can you sell something as
an advertisement space without giving any information about how
your advertisement is working? You have to, you have to. So yes, I think that will be the key
for us to get more proprietary data.

And the very interesting question
is, what will that data look like? Because if you think about it, it's
easy to aggregate classic search keywords because they're short, right? If you have, say, three to four, maybe
five terms, it's gonna be searched by thousands or millions of people depending
on what we're looking looking for. Now, prompts are different.

Prompts are an average five times
longer, sometimes way more than that. And that means there is less
uniformity between prompts, right? So it's really hard if you
have like say, like a 30 term prompt, which is not un uncommon. It's very hard to say, oh yeah, you know,
like 20 people looked for that and that's a topic you should go after, right?

Like, it doesn't make sense. Prompts are too noisy,
there's too much variability. And so what I think makes much
more sense from a data perspective, even for advertising, is topic
signals and intent signals, right? So here, almost like Google Trends, right?

Like here are topics that people
have searched for over time. Here is their intent. And so for reason back from advertising,
then I think starting with ads for the highest purchase intent queries or prompts
and topics makes the most sense, right? So I think similar to Google, I think
ads will start for these high intent.

Prompts or topics, better said, will
be aggregated into a topic and it will be highly interesting because it will
reveal how much intent power there really is behind Chat GPT, right? We've probably all seen the research
paper, how people search on Chat GPT, is incredibly  interesting, and you can see
people use it for all sorts of things. It's not a search engine, right? it gives advice, it helps
you do certain things.

It's a little bit like of like, you
know, sometimes agentic, but it can be a tutorial, it can help you find
certain things, it can help you analyze pictures, et cetera, et cetera. And so the big question is how much of all
this usage on Chat GPT, which must must be massive is, actually purchase intent. And so we'll find out soon,
because I'm sure advertising will come probably next, next year. And the, I think the data will
be split into topics and intents.

Yes, I think the same. Somehow like very few tools. Commercial tools now existing are really
treating AI search in terms of topics and mostly all the tools are prompt oriented,
which is, I don't really like, I, I mean I'm really skeptic like you and I think
that apart topics and the intent, I think that we will try to match, because
the problem is also personalization. So will give us eventually super
anonymized demographic data so you can eventually understand that
all this topic for this intent and for this kind of demographic, Yeah.

you are working well for this same
topic, same intent, other demographic data you are not working well, which
is going to be super useful for us also, SEO in order to better fine tune,
the strategy becomes the strategy. And when you we're saying do as
like Google trends, I tend to cos-paranoia, which is combination of
copi conspiracy theory and paranoia. And I remember why they waited more than
10 years to give us the API of Google trends, maybe because they also needed
finally to have API for Google Trends. That could be an interesting, you
know, conspiracy theory to investigate.

Yeah. Well now, now also aggregate more search
terms and search console into topics, yeah. In fact, the fact I think that and I, I
found very weird that the SEO community didn't spend much time talking about. Because it apparently, it seems like,
a simple filter, for instance, a brand filter for the brand queries
but if you go reading, it's not just the classy filter that we can do with
their agents like, in order to, but it's really an entity recognition.

So not only the, your exact name, not
only all the misspelling, but also for instance, in e-commerce, all the
product Google consider that are brand, Yeah. Let's think Nike does in all the names,
product names of specific sneakers, air Jordan, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So, which is interesting because
it's clearly telling us that entity search is entity search. Now we, it don't have to doubt it anymore.

And secondly that. Probably this is also used
in order to understand if a brand is a real brand or not. Yeah, a hundred percent. I think it sends some
interesting implicit signals.

I hope that we can get that type
of data through the API as well because search console is heavily
sampled and the user interface is a, it is very difficult to use. But to your point, Gianluca, I think
it's pretty clear that we're going across classic Google search AI search into this
direction of topics, intent entities. And I mean, you could argue we've been
there for a long time already, right? Like, but it's so interesting that we're
still, we're so attached to classic SEO mental models in so many ways, right?

It's not just keywords but it's also this
idea of like search terms and ranking factors and all that kind of stuff. And you know this, we need
to shut this off, right? We need to evolve, we need to
like adapt new ways of thinking. And it's difficult because
I catch myself all the time.

Having a reflex of how to
solve an AI search problem with classic SEO stuff, right? And it's like, oh no, wait, I have
to take a step back here and I have to like, I cannot use the same tools
because this stuff is evolving, right? And I don't wanna say it's completely
different, but the way that I think about SEO versus GEO or AO or whatever you
want to use, is that pretty much the same tactics, but in different environments
and in different playing ground. Yes.

I mean, I don't want to enter
into the Sterile polemic about the terms and yes, it's a new
surface, as you were saying before. It's a new surface as when I, it
appeared news search was a new interface, so different algorithm,
different rules to follow. The biggest example is the big differences
existing between classic search, You notice the experiment in, in the search
of Google using web guide instead of just, and did you notice above the block of
a web guide is return to classic search Right. this if fun because it's how we
think it is a classic search.

But I was saying even if all these
things are I was saying local search and classic search are the biggest example
of similarity between classic search and AI search but then you have people
really specializing in local search as you can have maybe in the future,
or especially now, because maybe in the future it's not going to exist. Some classic search anymore in AI search. So. I always thought SEO something bigger than
the classic search we see in the all view.

So that's why inventing creating all
this polemic above the names is for me how to, you know, look at your finger
without looking to the real picture. It's so stupid. Yeah. Yeah.

a and, philosophical yeah, but and, you're and, really interesting point, which is
that we're seeing this paradox between. The verticalization of SEO, right? So for a while now, as you said,
we have news, we have shopping, we have local, you know, B2B, B2C. They all have similar principles,
but they're different games to play.

yeah. one side. But then on the other hand, at the
same time, SEOs as a, as a craft, as a work, we need to do more and
more stuff in other departments, brand, pr, social media, right? Than ever before.

And so you have that weird paradox, right? It's getting more pers, verticalized, but But at the same time. yes, totally agree. But I think there is a risk, which is
innate, I think, in the nature of SEOs to try to appropriate the leadership
in everything, when, in this case it's not you SEO leading, also the other
marketers in other fields because it's going to be a, a clash, immediate clash.

It's doing something that
not maybe many SEO did, but I think the majority never did. So to collaborate with the. Yeah. other channel two retrofit the work
that all the growth strategy between all the channels in order to do the
classic one plus one is not two is three.

And in this case could
be even four or five. Right. And this is the most important thing. So, for instance, I usually never,
I would never really fault to.

To include in my workflow when I'm
creating a strategy, also a chapter dedicated in amplification in other
channels of the classic company channel. I would've said, okay, when you are
creating this kind of contract, it would be better to start thinking how
to repurpose it for all these things. Just that. But now I'm also trying to say okay,
the best way for this consider that.

For instance, Twitter is presented in
Discover because LinkedIn and Reddit and Quora are super used by AI as a source. Let me tell you what kind of style
you should in use better than others. And so this is the news
especially, and one other thing. In the very beginning, I would
say to you, I think that 2026 is going to be even more frenzy.

And the reason is that especially in
the e-commerce space maybe not in the first half of a year, the first half of
a year, I think and foresee especially big brands, really working on setting
the base of  agentic search because the problem is especially technical to make
the website via commerce comply with all the needs  at the base of agentic search. But yes, I see from a second half
of the year, I will see an explosion of everything agentic, because there
will be a sort of convergence of the experimentation Chat GPT is doing, the
experimentation of Google is doing also in AI mode and eventually in Gemini. And how the big brands, especially leading
first also some smaller brands wanted to, to experiment with this and maybe also
without, with less constraint in terms of bureaucracy that the big brands can try. And I think that would be the big
topic of for this year in terms of, of AI and search, because
in that case, yes, we will need.

Return to this vertical and specialization
of SEO, we will need someone who is going to be really specialized
in agentic because it is not the same as SEO as we have done before. This is a big difference more than
AI search now, don't you think? Yeah, it's, I look, I, I actually thought
that we're gonna have this wave of agentic agent usage already this year. It was too early.

These are not good enough yet. You know, like Google Mariner and
the Chat GPT agent, you know, they're still crashing a lot of times. They're getting better though. And so we can see that this
is coming on the horizon.

It's coming down the pipe. And so, It, it. the question when we're going to adopt
something like agentic completion rate as a metric, this is something
that I think next year we're gonna talk and think about a lot more. What is the rate of agentic
visits to my site compared to how many agents finish a checkout or
finish the completion of a task.

So that's gonna matter. And we're gonna notice along the
lines that there are some technical hurdles for these agents to overcome. There are you know, things like
popups or other navigation elements, maybe JavaScript, heavy navigations
that are gonna be difficult to navigate cookie banners, right? These classic types of things.

It's going to make agents crash,
at least in the infancy, but also stuff like, you know, maybe
slow server response time, right? Maybe certain core web vital issues. These things are gonna matter more for
agents because they're sort of like. Like a newborn giraffe, right?

They're al always at risk of falling
over and crashing any second. So you need to like really make it
very simple for them, which also begs the question of, you know, like
semantic, HTML, all that kind of stuff. Sure. But CSS usage, JavaScript usage,
how interactive is this site?

How easy is it? Blah, blah, blah, all
these kind of things. On the other hand, I also think
we're gonna talk more about agentic schema just in a classic sense of,
of you know, schema markup, but there might be new ways to create paths
for agents with specific schema. You have that, for example,
with Siri or Alexa.

There is specific voice assistant schema
that allows them to take certain actions. And so I think that's
all coming out the pipe. I agree with you. I think this is more gonna be the
latter half of next year, but it makes.

A lot of sense to go into that direction. On the one hand, to increase the
utility of AI right, makes it much more useful if the agent can do
something for you immediately. And also on the other hand, you know,
when you think about model training, we went from this progression of
basic LLMs to reasoning models, more reinforced learning, And as a next
step, there's gonna be more agentic learning and agentic development on top
of LLMs to just increase their utility. Because companies put a lot of money
in that stuff and it better, it better, you know, pushes some economic returns.

Totally. And there is another aspect that maybe
is going to be very studied and analyzed, which is how to make people upset. I mean, normal people, I mean, me,
you, when we are not in the marketer framework when we want to, to buy
something for my kids, for, for people we like, for ourself and so on. So how to educate people in order to
make them decide and accept the fact that you are not doing the thing yourself,
but you are delegating to another.

because obviously someone could
say, that people are already used to these kind of things somehow. Because when they go buy shopping
with, I don't know, Amazon and when we are shopping with Google shopping. But At the end, they always, if it didn't
store on Chrome, their credit card number, they usually finally put the credit card. And so this kind of control.

So maybe it's more how to create
the trust, how to create the use. So I think we, in terms of big
industry movement, we are going to see something that is already happening,
like the Stripe deal with was Chat GPT of Perplexity I don't remember now. I think it was Chat GPT Yeah. Yeah.

and, but maybe also in, on, on
a local market with big banks. I know for instance here in Spain,
we have La Caixa we have Bco. Santander. Maybe we are, we are really, really
strong also on the internet banking.

Side, creating this great collaboration
with AI agents, AI players in order to create this ecosystem, which is convenient
also for the financial industry. So I think that we will see also that
kind of things evolving because I mean, we can be prepared with four agents. We can do everything cool with
agentic search, but if people are not trusting to give everything
to an agent, it's going to die. Yeah yeah sure.

Trust is everything, right? Even in search, if Google loses trust
with searchers and the search results, that these are really the best search
results, that's probably the worst thing that can happen to Google. One of the worst things. And so you're absolutely right.

Trust is at the core of this,
and trust is built over time. So that's why the better these agents
become, the more willing we're going to be to give them our credit cards and
we'll limit it in the beginning, right? So we'll say maybe you
if free spending, right? It's like when you have a
corporate credit card, right?

You can, you free spending until
the 10 year olds or whatever after that, ask my permission. And then over time, increase the spending. And yes, there will be cases where
people lose a lot of money because they're, you know, maybe not
careful or they're making mistakes. Yes.

But over time, and I don't know how long
this takes, it could take, you know, I don't know, it's so hard to say because
there's so much nuance, but like fully fledged mass adoption will probably
take a decade or something like that people move slower than technology, I mean, we needed a, we needed
a pandemic to have people fully going and trusting e-commerce. There's still way to go, right? But yeah, you're absolutely right. So, you know, there are these catalyst
moments, there are these slow developments and we'll eventually land there.

So, on the one hand, you know, I
think this is something that we should start thinking about agent E-commerce. And at the same time, I also
don't wanna join the fearmongering and say, oh, you need to do this
tomorrow, otherwise your company's No, is gonna take a lot of time, right? So start thinking about this, but
don't go to bed worrying about this. We'll transition.

Obviously you don't. You don't have you. I mean, it would be full and crazy
if, let's say a big E-commerce, even a small e-commerce, was going full
agentic and totally forgetting that. Still, the bigger biggest
amount of traffic and conversion comes from classic search.

but as I like to define, The Search
Session is a, is a place where you start think forward in order to
start to study and get prepared to things that are going to come. And eventually the people listening to us
having a competitive advantage, we, as I said before, doesn't mean that you have to
stop doing classic SEO I mean technical, SEO is even more important than before. And we just say that it's going to be
even more important in the in the future. And doing things like great
content, organize good architecture, internal linkings, where
still, still, still important.

And I personally, I think that
they are going to be very important also in the future for different
reasons, but still important. And talking about the purview
you did in 20, for 2025. Which one? The you just said you were thinking
that a genis search was going to be a bigger movement in 2025, but
what is the one about which you are particularly proud you guessed well.

Man, what did I guess? Well, I think, let me think
a little bit about this. I think, you know there, there's
something to be said about the fact that we saw more, quote unquote. Like victims of ai.

And I'm not proud of the fact
that there're more AI victims. I'm just, I guess like I'm more proud
of the fact that I, I kind of held onto that prediction or to, to that outcome. But I, I think the, the reason that is
interesting is because on the one hand we're saying, look like AI takes time. classical SEO is still
important or classic search results are still important.

and at the same time, there are
real industries and there are real companies where we already see
a negative impact of ai, right? Like translation services stack Overflow
and check are clearly suffering, right? So I think that is one that has come
true, that was kind of foreseeable, but that also has this logical. You know, like unity.

So either you believe that there is
a real impact of AI or you don't. So that one landed well, I think. And then the other one is
that more marketing teams are using workflow automation. So I always say that AI
goes in both ways, right?

It changes the search landscape, but
it also changes the way that we work. And some that has really come to light
this year is that so many more teams are not just using ai, but are using
AI to automate part of their work. And I think that's important because
with a decline of clicks, right, we're losing an important leading indicator. And so we need to be even more
efficient with our work in order to, be successful in that, that transition.

Because all the leaders are now wondering,
okay, traffic is down, what's going wrong? And we need to help them understand
that this is changing from a click game to an influence game. And automation helps with that. Yes.

And regarding using AI for work,
especially in our case in terms of agency or even consultant like
me, I too started notice myself using more AI for, my workflows. But I also said, so sad. So a sort of, you know, a returning wave. I mean, in the really beginning is,
okay, you can do this, this, this, almost automate all the things.

But now I see a returning wave of,
yes, you can do all these things, but we need to put the human in the loop, Yeah, which maybe was something that we
should always have put even for granted. I mean, as like a default, there should
always be a human in the loop even in, in, in plants with, with robots. Building cars. You always have a man in the loop
controlling, but everything is fine.

But now it's coming back and, and
it's coming back especially in the content side of using AI because
people have already had the, the time to see huge success and immediate
fails with creating content with ai. And this is one thing that  certain kind
of professional, for instance, we, we were really eat by eruption of Chat GPT,
especially two years ago for instance, are going to maybe have a new opportunity
to be like the supervisors, not maybe the person writing the things but the
person guiding AI out of right things. Not in the terms of prompt engineer, but
more in the sense of as it was, you know, editor in chief in a, in a newspaper, Yeah. I love that comparison.

That's a brilliant analogy because
it's really what you're talking about. Humans I, you know, like the, the
more we progress with ai, the more I'm convinced that humans will be, stay
an integral part of this work and they will become so much more efficient. Now, the big question is obviously, how
much will AI replace us, jobs people? And so I'm more and more convinced
that it's, it's, it's absolutely gonna replace some jobs, I don't think
it will have this mass replacement.

I think what's gonna
happen instead is that. First of all, there, there are gonna be
some people who will be 10 times, maybe a hundred times more effective than others
because they're better at using AI, but second, we're all gonna become more
directors of AI and conductors or editors in chief, and we're just gonna become,
we're just gonna increase our output. And I'm saying that because there
used to be this interesting theory I think in the early 1900 where it was
clear that technology was evolving. Right.

And so the theory then was
that humans are just gonna work three to four hours every day. What has happened instead is that humans
are working more than ever before. And so I think that that, that to
me is kind of a little bit of the indicator, maybe proof point that. With AI, I don't think we're
gonna keep our productivity level or productivity growth the same
and then employ fewer people.

I think we're gonna employ the same
amount of people, but our productivity is gonna go through the roof. So anyway, that's my TED Talk. Yeah. Yes.

I mean, if I look to myself, for instance,
taking as a very improbable un-statistic case I never worked so many hours
because, because now I can do more things. So I can dedicate to more things apart
because I quit the more repetitive tasks so on that are totally success automated. But then because of the AI is giving me
tools that I wasn't able to have before or really were costing me too much time. So I was dedicated that kind of
job only for very specific case.

Now I can let's say widen
my landscape of working. For instance, let's say, i'm really
into things like content clustering with very, very specific content cluster. But before, maybe I was going to do,
okay, let's do the content clustering for the classic topical content clustering. And maybe let's try to see in, in,
in, do the clustering, expanding to a third journey customer journey.

So not to just target with
information on content, but now AI thanks to injecting too. Ai also the data about very,
very specific buyer persona, psychographic data of a buyer persona. And so really using for instance, SerpApi. com scraping mass, the SERPs in
order to understand what are the features that tend to appear the most.

So let's say for this kind of search,
for this kind of micro moments, usually Google is showing videos showing
image or is showing something else. And so all this data, I can collect
it faster and so I can inform any AI and with me human in the loop, try to
Have stronger clustering and doing more clustering and, and eventually, which
is something that I'm crazy and starting to experiment with how to cluster the
cluster in the sense because if not, you are going to have only silos. So how to connect the silos
if they are, can be related. And so in these things is
things that I can finally do.

I always had in mind, but it
was so painfully manual to do. Now I can delegate many, many things to
Claude, to Gemini or less to Chat GPT more Claude and Gemini in this case. And so yes, I'm doing more things and
sometimes using more hours because I'm really put into this kind of things. So.

And once, once that workflow
is built and it's refined, you can use it all over again. Right? So you're building more internal
tools, you're exploring new concepts. And what I'm, what I'm like really excited
about personally is that SEO becomes less of a set of recommendations or principles,
and it becomes more of a discipline where SEOs can also have an output.

Because for the last two decades
or more, SEOs gave recommendations. Now they can actually create
content based on clusters and, you know, all these cool analysis
and and and whatnot and workflows. And now we can actually bring
the content all the way to them, theoretically publish, but maybe even
better bring it to the editor and say, look, this is a very refined draft. I would love you to make it better.

Or at least a very, very
detailed content brief. But we can start to have influence. Same with, you know, CMS. You can plug more AI tooling or workflow
automation directly into the CMS.

You can create your own components
now with just natural language, right? There are things like Figma make
or some of the Photoshop tools. So you can just say like, you can design
something and then code it with Cursor and bring it all the way to a company. And again, I'm not saying that
should be immediately put live.

The designers No, no, but it's a an easy way to
finally create prototypes that can sell your recommendation better. Yeah exactly. I can spin up a website with
Lovable in 10 minutes, right? Like if I have a knowledge base attached
to it and some stylistic guidelines, I can create programmatic pages in, in no
time, and again, all prototype stage.

But that is now possible as an SEO. We're not as reliant
on other teams anymore. We're still, look, we're
not bypassing them, right? We still need to collaborate
in everything, but we can now much, much faster, and that's
huge for our profession.

Yes. Totally. And one question now that you
are consulting as an advisor. How many times?

Because this is really a
personal curiosity because it's happening to me too. It's happening to me, but how
many times did you found yourself indicating, pointing with your
finger to, to your clients, Hey, you don't need to create great content. You already have it, but you have, you
have it burried in this subdomains and this PDF, in these things that is totally
on your website, but totally offered it. How many times it happened to you?

Every time, because
you're absolutely spot on. It's not just marketing
collateral and sales collateral. It's also help documentation,
intern documentation, Exactly. right?

There's so much content. For example, you could plug
into Confluence, right? Atlassian. I work there.

It's used a lot of times by companies
as like an internal knowledge base. The content ideas and content
you can create just based on that internal stuff, right? Not talking about you know, sensitive Obviously. just the context.

It's massive and it will take companies
years to bring that treasure chest from the ground of the ocean to the top. But you're absolutely right. There's, it's, you know, that's where I
like the, the term context engineering, because so much context already exists
that is not yet explicitly formalized in, in, in external facing content. Yes.

And I think it's also a good way to to
plan defensive in terms of defensive plan because I think you're agree
with me that LLMs, the chat bots are substantially a very, very, for
brand, are a very, very sophisticated online reputation management surface. And if you have everything to
substantially make the opinions of the other about some, let's say, I mean, they
are going to the surface, obviously, but maybe if you're making surface, if for
instance, all your customer care helps subdomain your developer subdomain your,
things that are talking about your brand. Obviously, as you said, without putting
sensitive data, but everything that can really explain your brand to AI, then
AI was going obviously to, to use your facts instead of using facts of the other
or maybe worst made up by others, which is the real problem is we were seeing
already with the test, for instance, by the Ahrefs or so, that kind of situation. Yeah totally.

I mean, it's, it's a real problem right
now, as you said, Ahrefs has published a, an article about a manufactured imaginary
company and fed LLMs information. I've, you know, like noticed several
instances in which, you know, like a reputation was severely damaged
from external sources of companies. So all of this is real, and that is
one of the reasons for why I think that starting next year, more LLMs
are going to adopt you know, agent debate models or critical agent models. There's also a, a concept
called reliability rack, which all mean the same thing.

Which is that instead of just having
LLMs retrieve content for training data and for reasoning answers, these
systems will add filters which are little agents that reason about the
content that is being retrieved. So they're critically asking, Hey,
this content, where's this coming from? You know, is there some
prompt injection in here? Is there I am sort of greater.

Yes exactly. Exactly. It's gonna be a greater a, i I think
there's like, Amazon AWS already provides this technology called Reliability Rack,
and then there are a bunch of research papers about this idea of critical
agents or agent to agent debates, right? And so because of all these issues
also with reputation and whatnot, I think LLMs are gonna be more
sophisticated, especially when it comes to web retrieval or web search.

Yes. I personally also think that something
that is not new is also even one of the oldest technology, which is symbolic
AI is going to be recovered because it runs substantially on knowledge graph. And maybe the knowledge graph can be one
of the way for AI agents to understand if something is authoritative or not. Or comes from an
authoritative source or not.

There are many other things that LLMs
must also recheck like this for me, really pissing off over dependency
on residency because it is not possible that let's say I'm making,
making up a an absolute example. Let's say they Britannica Encyclopedia
is less relevant than the post by blogger just because the poster by
the blogger is, has been written two days ago and the Encyclopedia
Britannica is there from always. So I think, there is also the other
kind of problems like this one, which is we should be review because you see. it is also prone to spam or agency
because you can automate bots to create listicle, spam, and voila.

a nonexisting brand is going to
be suggested as the same level of one historical reputed brand. Just one question. We were saying before about omnichannel,
so how to collaborate with other channel in digital, I foresee an
even stronger collaboration with the classic marketing strategy. I mean, they offline, let's call it.

So, where we can see that what
is online, the brand visibility online is going to be a reflection,
a true reflection of what's the. Real visibility offline. And I say is also for the potential
evolution of the devices themselves. So maybe we're going as before
Voices was always a sort of joke.

Maybe now we should really start to
study how much, how many people are using Chat GPT, for instance, as a voice
search device instead of a typing device. Because I mean, who can humanly
write a 20 minutes conversation, long conversation, typing it? Nobody because people forget that
it's already 10 years, that especially the younger generation are doing
WhatsApp vocals, which I hate. So it's something that is used.

and then maybe also because we can
start seeing, because we didn't talk about meta, and meta is pushing all the
technology of let's call it glasses. But it can be ar on mobile
and something like this. So, we didn't talk about lens and visual
search as a search, as a, even, even a more improved surface for search. So I think this is also going
something that not so many people are talking about or thinking about,
but would be worth to investigate.

Uh, Let's see, you know, next year Google
is going to launch glasses ar glasses, so that's gonna be highly interesting. I, I expect Apple, if they can work
through their leadership challenges to release AI powered Siri,
that hopefully gets really good. And at the same time, Google has been
publicly announcing that they see, I think, billions of searches on lens. Yes, and I wonder what are these
people searching for, right?

Like, is this really just
like, what's this tree? What's this plant? it is. something It's extremely imp.

I, I have a passion for Lens. I was talking of Lens, let's say 2018 and
already when it was coming out, and it's huge for When you go to a shop or you say,
okay, this, this is something that I like, but let's see if I can buy it online. From the same company, let's say
from the same shopper line, or if there are offers about these
things from other eCommerce online. This is quite common And then, you
know, the fact that lens is also a prototype of what can be AI search before
time, because people was using Lens.

Because lens, you can let's say see
something written let's say you are in Japan, you don't know Japanese, and you
with Lens, you can simply shot a photo and ask for a translation or, which is another
cool things that you can do full lens. And they know that people was, is
using it for, it is photo making a photo of let's say a restaurant. And instead of going to Google
Maps and search for a restaurant is asking directly what restaurant
is this and what are the reviews. So it's really simplifying
certain types of search.

That's why it's so, so big,
especially younger generation. Yeah. So it's interesting because either we're
seeing substantial ecommerce usage for lens, and then the question is how does
that translate into revenue for Google? Right?

Or it's more simplistic,
informational types of searches. So let's say, you know, there's a
significant amount of these searches of these billions of lens searches that are
e-commerce related, even if it's just 20%. Right? Mm-hmm.

number. And so Google probably sends
them to a SERP for shopping and that's where they can show ads. And so because we're knowing that
Google's revenue has been growing, right, but obviously clicks are
down because of AI overviews. The question is then this lens e-commerce
search impact these searches from lens in e-commerce, are they the reason
that revenue is still growing or, and on top of classic search, right, or
is classic search eroding and lens is compensating for some of that erosion
and driving more e-commerce value?

I'd love to, we probably
don't know the answer, right? But I would No, what's the impact of Lens
search on Google's bottom line? Or is it just a cool way to stay
top of mind for users and that's the business value for Google. Well.

I, I sincerely don't have the answer,
but I know that when you do, for instance, an eCommerce search using
lens, it's like when you're doing using image search on desktop or mobile. So there are several risks for a
brand because you may appear, and I that's why you could start seeing, for
instance, very sophisticated packaging in order to be very well retrieved
by image recognition algorithms with all, because if not, it's going to be
confused and maybe a, a product of your competitor is going to be suggested
instead of yours that it's been shot. This is one problem. And the other problem is
that Google is not stupid.

If you don't like this. I present you related product,
products that you maybe will like. to see and to to explore. So Google is always you know, like
in the casino, it is the bank.

It's always been, what is risky
is for the, organic search of a brand side of a brand. And as it is in shopping for for
the paid version part of the brand. 'cause all, it's so simple shopping
because you have your product or your product knowledge panel, and then Google
is suggesting another shop, another brand. So why, okay, so one hour, it's,
it, it really run all the time.

Flies by. So let's stop you talking about AI future. Let's talk about you. I always have this kind kind of
question, so what, what is the things that you would've liked to
do if you weren't a growth advisor when you were a kid and someone was
asking to you, Hey Kevin, what do you want to do when you grow up?

Mm-hmm. You know, my answer most of the time
was becoming a, a doctor, a surgeon. I want my dad as a doctor and
I wanted to become a doctor until I was about 18 years old. And then I got really turned
off by all the bureaucracy and paperwork you do as a doctor.

You know, it's probably 50% of the job
now, and that didn't seem so appealing. But, you know, I, I, I
think I, I would've really. I would've had a great time as a
doctor, but then right after college, I didn't immediately get into SEO. I first started in finance, for like
a year, you know, like, not, not long, but on an investment bank.

And I thought that was the way to go,
but then I was like, yeah, no, that's, that's not, the wrong kind of direction. Also, because, you know, like if
you wanna, at that time, like I was, you know, I was born and raised
in Germany and then did investment banking in Switzerland for a year. But the action was not
in Switzerland anymore. You know, that action is on The
Bahamas in Singapore, Hong Kong, you know, other parts of the
world, maybe New York, of course.

So I, I then pivoted towards SEO and
I was very happy to have done that. But yeah, you know, when people ask,
when kids ask me on the playground when I was young, I was like,
yeah, I'm gonna become a doctor. Yeah, well, like me, I
wanted to be an archeologist. Uh, Also because uh, I mean, I, I grew
up when Indiana Jones was, was running in the cinema and, and I actually
started to study to, to make some kind of study in order to be an archeologist.

But then I understood that, okay,
Latin, somehow I can do it, but ancient Greek is not for me. And I mean, it's mandatory to
know ancient Greek for if you want to be an archeologist. So I oof. moved to my second
passion, which was movies.

And that's why for many
years I worked in television. And then as I told many times,
I had to reinvent myself as an SEO for a reason that are not
it's too long to explain here. And it's also because it's,
really not depending on me. It's a really external reason.

Really business, big business
reason so you know, because this is somehow sometimes the
confusion I also had with you. So you are born in, in Germany so you
are German, but 'cause many times people think that you are not German, but people
think that you are from the States. Yes, yes, that's right. The, the thing is my, my dad is American,
so I'm a hybrid, if you will, Germerican.

I have dual citizenship
and yes, you're right. I was born and raised in Germany. I spent the first 24 years, 25
years of my life in Germany, and then I moved to the States. I spent the last 12 years there,
and now I came back just this year to Germany with my family to be
closer to my parents and brother.

So, yeah, it's it's been like
an interesting experience. And then in the US I, I, you
know, I, I spend a lot of time in California, a little bit in
Chicago, a little bit in Michigan. That's why people are also confused,
so I don't make it easy to to, No no. Since, sincerely not, but I mean, you,
you told me when we, we met in and your story, so, but yes, it's sometimes
there is, especially if you have this is a suggestion for all the people
that maybe want to contact with Kevin.

Kevin is in central European time zone. Okay. So, because sometimes you, you don't know. At what time, which time zone is Kevin I,
when I can contact it, when I can organize eventually video call with him and so on?

It happens all the time, all the
time, man, and I can't blame people. It's, again, I, I don't make it easy. No. Well, it's like for me, everybody,
people think that I'm Spanish when instead I'm Italian and they say, ah.

But you are Italian. Born in Spain. No, no, I'm Italian. Italian.

There you go moved to Spain. So Kevin, thank you so much for this
conversation, it was really, really interesting and I think that the
time flies also because of this. So fast, man. But I'm glad we finally
could make it happen.

I really enjoyed this as well. I could have probably
gone on for another hour, I Appreciate you having me on, man. Thank you. And thanks to you guys,
remember to ring on the bell.

You know, this is the classic
moment that I have to do. Ring on the bell. In order to receive a notification
of new episodes and help me making this channel grow, subscribe on
YouTube, Spotify and Apple Podcast. Thank you and bye-bye.