# SEO Has Changed Forever. What Marketers Need to Know Now

* **Expert:** Kevin Indig
* **Video ID:** m00bYt1eIQY
* **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m00bYt1eIQY
* **Date Published:** 2025-07-10

---

## Transcript

Hi everybody, it is I, Katie Morton. I'm the editor-inchief of Search Engine Journal and today I'm sitting down with Kevin Indig who is a growth advisor to fast growing tech companies and he is the author of growth memo which is a fantastic newsletter. we syndicate it here on search engine journal but sign up for it because he also has content only for subscribers and it's um just really smart learnings and every marketer it's what every marketer needs to know. So anyway, Kevin, thanks for making the time today and we're here primarily to talk about a data study that Kevin conducted.

Um the results I believe that you were pouring through happened back in April um March and April of 2025 and the study came out in May. Obviously it's well it's now late June so some time has gone by and that has given us some time to distill those results and to really make sense of them. And we want to talk about um I think the nuts and bolts of the the background of that study so people understand what we're talking about. But we want to go beyond the study to then say how do we help marketers?

How do we help you know every company that has been let's say frustrated by Google or AI overviews or the traffic drops? um and how can people rectify that? So the first question I just want to ask you Kevin is the study in a nutshell um and the main takeaways what what uh what do you want people to know to give them that background? Thanks for having me on uh Katie.

It's great to be here with you. The study in nutshell is essentially it basically came out of the wish of better understanding and deep deeply understanding from a qualitative perspective how users everyday users interact and engage with AI overviews. 2024 was kind of a moment where everybody looked at this and said, "hm, this looks kind of funky. Uh, let's keep an eye on this." But the results didn't really traffic and stuff wasn't that impacted.

And then at the beginning of 2025, everything changed. And it was like a holy cow moment. This is real and this is serious. And so we set out to ask 70 participants for this study out of the US across different age groups to solve eight tasks that basically cover the most dominant user intents.

So it's stuff like find a tax accountant in your area, um research this medical question, um all sorts of things like buy e-commerce intent, all you know, basically the most dominant things that people are doing on the web. And we intentionally steered them to some queries which were showing AI overviews at the time. By now it's much more. But back then you were like, okay, half of the questions should have people interact with the AI overviews, but we didn't tell people to necessarily interact with them, right?

We didn't want to bias them or prime them before they encountered the AI overview, but we knew that they were going to see one. And so in a nutshell, I think the the three most poignant results are that first of all, and this is no surprise, but but clicks are really rare when people see AIO views. I think that's that got through to everyone by now. Um, and yet at the same time, classic organic results still have the majority of impact on people's completion of user journeys.

Let me let me untangle that for just a second. Um, what we found is that people get their final answer, which is kind of the final piece of information that they were set out to get to together. They get that 80% of the time from classic or excuse me, classic organic results, not from AI overviews. So, that was encouraging.

Two, um, clicks are going down, but people still click. And each of those clicks has a much much higher quality than say in 2024 before because those clicks are clicks to verify whether the results are accurate, get human inputs from platforms like Reddit or YouTube um and increase the confidence in whether what the AI is saying is true. And so for us that means it's critical to be present in these high trust, high-risk moments. I can unpack that a little more.

And then the third result that I found very interesting is that there really is a an age difference here. So younger people are are much more receptive to AI answers. They're much more active on Reddit and YouTube. Whereas people with a higher age, they will often just skip the AI answers because they don't trust them, right?

And so takeaway again here is that you want to know who you're talking to, who your target audience is, ideally like what the age group is of your ICP or your target audience. and then make SEO decisions accordingly. Right on. So, thank you for that.

And um what I would love to talk about is the idea of branding. if someone, you know, I think that this um well, I I think, you know, I'm not not entirely sure, but I feel like big brands of are a little safer with the developments of late because if you already have recognition and then you're not starting from that, you're really behind the eightball if you're a tiny brand, if you don't have any recognition because and for the un uninitiated, uninformed, why why is that important? It's the idea that when you're talking about high trust, if someone sees your brand in an AIO, they're more likely to, you know, recognize that brand brand clout and if they are going to click in the AIO, they're more likely to click on your site. Um, and also if someone is going to scroll to get to the, you know, the 10 10 blue links or the organic results, 10 blue links, is that that's not a thing anymore.

But if they're going to scroll down beyond the AIO and they're going to look at the the real the real results, they're probably and then they're looking for that human verification that, you know, they're looking for the trust, they're going to go with someone they recognize. So, for a brand that's not well, and let me back up again, you can be a great brand and then actually lose recognition and you can lose brand trust. And I um was talking to Morty Oberstein who he's um had to unify branding now. um he's doing his own thing with helping people with branding and he and I sit down on a regular basis to have some conversations about branding and it's really important for for companies obviously I mean reputation seems to be everything right now.

So if you're a big So an example he gave of a big brand who lost clout was Nike. 1940 was so ubiquitous and I think that they had this sense of um misplaced confidence in themselves and they didn't realize that they could ever lose that throne and I feel the younger generations though like Nike who right like and even amongst the older folks like when I see people out and around I rarely see the swoosh anymore I see hopas which are these like big ugly things but ones. I've heard they're fantastically comfortable. Anyway, I'm touching on a lot of points here and I'm going to dial it in, but so for a big brand to um keep that confidence uh andor a brand that is maybe known amongst the older set and not the younger set, how did they gain that trust?

And for a brand who just never had it to begin with, let's say they're just tiny or they're just starting out or they've always struggled with that recognition, what do they do? Is the door shut or can they can they get traction these days? You can get traction. You can turn the ship around and it's really challenging.

And part of the challenge is this goes directly back to SEO. Part of the challenge is that so many different teams and departments need to work together. the product and R&D team or innovations team they obviously need to like I think Nike is a great example right they were um lapsed by um by on and by by Hoka who were just more innovative right um and then the marketing department needs to communicate that to people in an enticing way um customer support or success needs to probably go to experience right like the supply chain needs that product there's a lot going into this and the challenge this goes directly back of one of the big challenges of our time the challenge for SEO is you don't control all of all of these where right the reality is that SEO was always in that bucket where they couldn't control all the variables I mean if you think about it the main output of SEO or SEOs as people better said is recommendations um so you always rely on other teams and that has 10x now with AI because as you said brand and brand perception and sentiment is so critical to how you appear in search results or answers And it goes back to so many different touch points with a brand, not just the logo that people see or the advertising, but also the product that they use, retention, all that kind of stuff. And so I think the SEOs like need to find ways to make other teams aware of shortcomings that are visible through SEO.

For example, clickthrough rates, brand search volume, um engagement metrics on the website. These can all be indicators for that. And so SEOs need to take that and tell the story and get other teams, you know, to um to kind of step it up. And the big challenge there is that you often hit a cost calculation, right?

So if you go over to head of customer support, you say, look, we need better support. Obviously need to define that very clearly, right? But as you say, you know, like let's just say we need to hire another call center with people who can take more time answering customers questions, right? That is a big cost center.

that is not is not you can't just go and say well we need more you know uh searches and you know and that's why we need to invest millions in a call center they're going to ask back okay how much more are we getting for that and quantifying that is incredibly challenging right so you absolutely hit it on the head with some of the challenges that reflect in SEO and at the same time it's not enough for us SEOs to only think about ah maybe we can talk to the paid team about some stuff right it's like this goes way beyond just Google as a channel this goes basically towards back to the company's strategy and it's incredibly difficult to influence. Yeah. Yep. It is well um and you know talking about like the nuts and bolts of uh SEO and you know every so many years we get the hand wing SEO is dead.

SEO is dead. I mean this is really the first time that I've seen it. Um I'd say the you know I've been in SEO for 20 years. I hate dating myself like that, but I've been I've been doing it for, let's just say, a long time.

This is the first time that I felt like there's sort of like this credible threat. I mean, it'll never be dead. Let's be realistic because because it's called discovery and people are always going to need to be discovered, you know, wherever that is. And so, um, yeah, let me just get that out of the way.

But but what you're saying, you know, it's like it it is SEO is used to be looked at as sort of almost like and it's not free, right? Because you got to pay your SEO specialist and you got to pay to create organic content, but it was always looked at as the most cost-effective way close to as free as you can get to do marketing. And now it's become um it's not a sure thing like it used to be. And so then it starts to um the idea of the budget behind SEO starts to look questionable in terms of the ROI.

And so I think that in my opinion it's going to be contracting a bit as an industry. You know, like all industries, they tend to contract and expand over the years. And I think that we're just we're in somewhat of a a contraction state, but it's also going to shift in in terms of how people do things. And um in some ways it's been good in terms of clearing out the deadwood of both lowquality I would like to think lowquality content that was just like these super general search terms.

The only point was to bring in massive page views and clicks. And now AIO is sort of like all right well if it's general knowledge um like for example what is well back in the day EAT now it's EAT but if you put in a search for you know what is EAT the word eat obviously is a very common word in the English language and so you would get massive numbers of searches on this and it would depend on obviously the intent of the user whether maybe they were you know English as a second language or they're trying to learn and they're like what is eat that you speak of right versus what is um eat which you know the expertise authority trust um so anyway we we were ranking for that m I don't know where we are right now whatever but we used to get like a massive amount of traffic for that obviously a lot of it unqualified right because like if someone's in SEO and they're like looking for what is EAT it's like we try to appeal to um you know a more learned audience. And so those might not have been like they're not highly qualified clicks for us. And so with this shift in the industry, what we're observing for us and I think for a lot of other people in in the industry is that traffic is now it's down, but it's so much more powerful because it's so much more highly qualified.

Um, obviously it's rough on publishers who rely on just mass force of the brute force of clicks. It was all qualified, right? Like, yes, that's rough for them because they're they're losing just that all of that generalized juice. Um, and you know, we made a shift away from programmatic and more towards uh advertisers that are are more geared into our industry.

Um, service, you know, software as a service, that type of thing. So anyway, blah blah blah long way of saying um it's just a it's a massive time of change in the industry and I'm wondering what you are thinking and seeing it like the future of you know not just SEO but marketing as a whole. How what are your predictions or what do you think or what do you what do you want to talk about? You hit it on the head.

Uh SEO is contracting. There's no doubt about that. I see budgets being down, confidence being bound down from leadership. Um I'm I'm not seeing people necessarily getting fired or laid off over this, but when people leave, I often see that the positions are not being refilled, right?

So as absolutely in a contraction and you know this philosophical question of whether SEO dies or lives, um it's again it's like very philosophical. I would argue SEO has died many times, right? And it will probably die again. Um, I see that we're using a lot of SEO basically also for AI visibility optimization.

I do expect that to change, but I think however you however you flip it, um, we are in a transition period. And the problem with transition periods is that they're hard to navigate, you lose orientation, um, and it's painful, right? Once you settle at a new baseline, once you get comfortable, uh, I just did a big move, right? And so for the past eight year, sorry, eight weeks, we're like all very unsettled and they, you know, you just run around a little headless and you kind of try to find your way and then slowly things kind of start to settle back in.

And so I'm very confident that whatever you're going to call this, we're going to settle into a new baseline. It might take a while. Um, could take years, right? I think there's not going to stop in the next six months, probably not 12 months, but you know, it's hard to predict when, but based on how quickly models um uh improve and and how quickly humans adapt to them, I think that will kind of decide the pace of this transition.

But anyway, um I think the there's also a lot of opportunity in transitions. you can reinvent yourself and I think that's where as SEOs we might lose the SEO budget but maybe we gain we we gain some brand budget which which has been much much bigger in the past. You see the companies spending millions of dollars for multi-year contracts for a tiny logo that sits somewhere on like a Formula 1 car. You know what I mean?

Like these things happen all the time. And so I think there's a big opportunity for SEO to detach from that unwanted profiling as a performance channel, right? Or maybe some people wanted that, I don't know, but detach ourselves from being a performance channel and much more to a brand channel, influence channel, presence channel, whatever you want to call it. but new metrics, new levers, deeply rooted in SEO and effective and powerful but kind of in a new in a in a new design, right?

Like SEO 2.0, whatever you want to call it. Um, and I I do agree with you like I see, you know, I also see people who've been in the game for a long time stepping out. Totally get that. I see young people losing a bit of confidence whether that's the right choice.

Totally get that. But I will also say that I would like but wouldn't admit that there's a little part of me that's kind of excited for all this change because it's a opportunity to kind of reshuffle the cards, find out new stuff, maybe find some secrets um and uh and kind of reverse engineer what's going on. And when you look at the last just 10 days where multiple people and companies found new ways to reverse engineer what queries uh Gemini uses and ChhatriD uses. I'm like man uh it's awesome to see how adamant the industry works on like developing the new playbook um dissecting kind of how these mechanics work and LMS work and uh and finding new ways.

So I have high confidence and I also have a lot of empathy for all the pain and kind of the problems that this industry is going through. But again I see us coming out at the other side at some point in like a a new design and uh a lot of impact. I love it. Yeah.

I mean I agree with the empathy as well because you know I think everyone I in marketing it seems has lost their lost their mind a little bit over the past year or two with uh these shifts in in traffic. But that wild wild west um environment is also really exciting because there's going to be all of these developments and if people are calm and they persevere and they do the work to figure these things out either for themselves or to watch what those um researchers are finding, you know, people will be people will be okay, right? We always we always are. So we always are.

We always are. Sorry to cut cut you off there, but I think there's a really important point to make here that I didn't make, and that is it's not just search that's changing. SEO is at the forefront of AI, at the absolute forefront because it's about words and it's about search and search is kind of the biggest interface between AI and humans uh right now. And so it's not just search that's changing, marketing is completely changing, and like all of our lives are completely changing.

And sure, like this will take years to trickle through. Maybe not even to the degree that we're thought of it. But I think it's pretty clear that AI is at least as revolutionary as the internet. Maybe even the most revolutionary invention that human humanity has um made to so far.

And so let's not forget that like everything is changing, right? It's not just us SEOs, it's other it's all the channels. as marketing as a whole, you know, modes and levers are disappearing and new words new ones are coming up. So, uh, we're feeling it deeply in SEO as kind of being at the front line of AI.

But make no mistake, this will trickle through to all the paid channels, uh, you know, product like everything. Everybody is right is in kind of the shock state right now and trying to figure out what the new branches are to hold on to and then build on top of. But, you know, like marketing as we know it is over. Like all of that stuff is is falling apart right now as LMS can do so many new and crazy things and kind of finding so many more ways into our lives.

True. That I will say we've, you know, we have a small team at Search Engine Journal which is great in terms of being nimble and we've pretty much you know we've collapsed editorial and marketing nearly at this point. So in terms of you know I work really closely with Heather VP of marketing here and um we love it like it's made our team so tight and we've had to just really shift and pivot how we do things. It used to be like SEO and editorial was over here and marketing was like over there and like who knew what either team was doing and sort of like who cared and it was fine and it functioned and those days are I think thankfully over.

It's really um brought our team closer together and we're much more integrated because um well, you have to be that's just this shift that the industry has put upon us and it it used to be like like SEO and marketing I know that SEO technically is a subset of marketing but it has never made that more clear that marketing is this umbrella and SEO is this like little subset of it whereas before it was like SEO and marketing were sort of like these um equalsized ven diagrams that live like separate from each other and now there's like this oh this is marketing and like here's SEO like as this little circle in the diagram. Um, so that's been that's been I think a healthy shift especially for brands who are looking to convert to have it all really under one roof and so that the teams are working together and and so that it's more of a seamless experience between um what editorial is you know for your for content marketers or SEOs what they're shouting out into the ether to have that um really more honed in on the ICP and the demographics and really looking at um you know conversion optimization and you know what you know all those aspects of marketing that we really that should be more integrated all along that now people I think are forced to to integrate. So um so it's not all it's not all bad. It makes people much more effective at their work and it's better for the customers too.

100%. Yes. Uh I have this conversation with all of my clients right now like how do we change the teams? How do we bring them closer together?

Hair down these silos. I mean look realistically and ideally SEO and paid or paid search have always been connected at the hip. But I'll tell you at least across like almost all of the companies that I've worked with or at they were siloed right and so the same exists with all these other teams like product marketing or social media um um and uh um I said conversion and email all that kind of stuff and they should like I think now is the time to start thinking about how do we rip off the band-aid and bring these teams together right I think there can be small teams of maybe an SEO an editor an email person, social person, and maybe like a like a very technical person that can quickly prototype new apps and programs or tools. Like those teams can be incredibly dangerous.

That the the the biggest pain point that I'm seeing uh for organizations right now is that they're too bureaucratic. There's too much red tape and too many walls between the teams that don't allow them to run fast enough. Right? AI essentially is a catalyst for speed.

It allows you to speed things up critically. And so now it's more the workflows and the ways of working of companies that hold them back from running faster. And so I mean look like realistically you can't just like tear everything down and burn it down and that you know sure there has to be some kind of thought behind this right but that's a big big benefit of small companies that are not that kind of established yet that don't have these settled walls yet. they can build these teams much much faster and they can experiment with what kind of skills are missing on these teams.

And so really pushing my clients right now to go out build new teams, try new teams, multi-disiplinary, not with like, oh yeah, we got we have these isolated teams and we kind of try to have them work together. No, one manager, one roof, one mission and go. And those are kind of the teams that are having the biggest impact right now. Awesome.

Yeah. Well, I want to touch on probably one more point before we wrap up, but that's the idea of other platforms. I think for such a long time, everyone had too many of their eggs in the Google basket, right? And if anyone's learned anything over the years, it's that you you need to diversify where you get traffic from.

And that's been the whole point of, you know, there's Google, but then there's also ads, there's social media, there's newsletters, right? So there's lots of places where people can pull from to get traffic. And so to make that a really holistic, that's been our focus is the idea of holistic marketing. And to have those teams work together to create that entire, you know, call it a funnel or a flywheel or whatever, you know, just that um that engine that is bringing people to you.

What are some things that you're seeing that are really working for people whether it's um what platform whether it's or you and I know this depends on the company and it's going to depend on the demographics and there's all those dependencies but I think generally speaking where do people live these days where are humans hanging out and where do we find them like what are what's the success metrics that you're seeing the short answer is everywhere on the good luck everyone Okay, good night. Right, that's a show. No, but you know the reality is everywhere. Um, there's this interesting paradox and I need to coin this term somehow, but this interesting paradox that basically all the social networks are growing and new ones are popping up, right?

Uh, Tik Tok, I mean, it's not that new anymore, right? But it's kind of still growing. Reddit is becoming much more of a household now. Um, and so you ask yourself like what gives?

like sure linear TV's down okay but like what how is this possible and the reality is that people are online all the time um speaking for a friend um and uh they use a lot of platforms at the same time right and so the best teams or the companies that are making a big impact they have this this surround sound effect that they're creating where they're present in a lot of places they engage authentically say on Reddit right maybe like you it doesn't like when good companies engage on Reddit. It doesn't feel like marketing. It's not marketing really. It's much more like trying to be helpful.

It's much more like customer support or success. So that's why uh these people are generally very well suited to interact on Reddit. But they like truly add value. They truly are part of the conversation.

Um brands are repurposing their content in a very thoughtful and highfidelity way or maybe they create a blog article turns to a video turns to clips which then turns the questions that they ask on or answer on Reddit. Right? So there is this kind of kind of everywhere AI really helps with that. Um and I will also say it's typically not companies that are getting stuck at the kind of quantification of impact question.

Right? So the reality is that steering an organization or a company towards that that multi- channelannel um effect or that surround sound effect takes a swing, right? It takes a leader to say, "Okay, we're gonna spend some money and we're going to take six months and we're gonna invest in Reddit and YouTube. Um, we're gonna wait for the results to come in.

We're not going to sit there every day refreshing, refreshing the dashboard, like how many sales have we generated yet?" You know, it takes a bit of a swing. And so, I think it's defining for this era, for this transition period where it's much harder to project and forecast where you're going to land with some of these things. And it takes judgment and taste and a certain degree of risktaking to invest in these channels and functions and being comfortable or at least okay with waiting for some of the results to come in and being able to measure them later, right? Not saying you should wait a year or two, right?

Uh but like give it two quarters or maybe three quarters and and kind of experiment with some of these channels. So that's where people are. People are everywhere. It's not enough to just have like one shot at one platform.

It needs to be kind of everywhere. Um, and repurposing can help. Using AI with some of these things help, but at the end of the day, you need to take a swing. Very wise, Kevin.

Yeah. And you know, one of the things that we'll we'll leave we'll leave it um in a minute, but it's like one of those things that I I found um for lack of a better way to put it, highly annoying is that you can run these experiments and you're going to wait for your results and then before your experiment is even done, everything's changed again. Yeah. That Yes.

Exactly. You're absolutely right. And that is part of the problem here, right? like it the comfortable ways, the predictable ways are going away.

And so you're taking a couple of swings at bats, right? We're talking baseball. Um and some of these might not work out, right? Because things change or because you made a mistake or because something else, right?

Um but that's what you need to get comfortable with, right? And so the best leaders, the best teams, they they're at bad a lot of times. They take a lot of swings because some of these swings will hit fulls. Um and uh and it's kind of a skill to build.

So anyway, you get the point. Um, but that's what that's what I'm seeing for the best. Yeah, I I couldn't agree more. One of the things we've implemented at Search Engine Journal is the idea of experiment.

And so every month, every department comes up with an experiment and we just keep cranking them out. And so we just are constantly shifting what we do. And it could be with a website layout, it could be with type of content, it could, you know, it really runs the gamut. um what we're experimenting with.

And so I think if people can just be nimble and um I always like to say soft knees like it in baseball when you're like waiting like just soft be prepared like be nimble be ready to move and shift and how how we do things. I think people will be will be okay. There's no like set it and forget it lifestyle anymore. It's like people just have to keep their keep their wits about them and uh yeah that's about it.

Yes. Yes. On point, right? uh allow allow people to fail.

um like like I think another kind of good skill is if you're if you're able to take a meaningful risk and I'm not saying bet the farm but you know when you as a leader want to encourage your people to take risks let them take some extra risks and not just oh yeah well this you know this small experiment that has no consequences didn't work out haha no no like you need to get comfortable taking risks and again this does not mean to blindly just shoot in all directions like you want to have some thought behind that some judgment um you want to be critical but then it has to be a time at which you let go when you just let it do it its thing. That is a really perfect point because our experiments to to focus them uh we have you know we look at northstar metrics and so we've chosen this year you know northstar metric is um one of them is newsletter subscribers and so a lot of our experiments revolve around that metric. can we get more signups and had some awesome success with that? So, um just want to leave that on an encouraging note for people that um they're it can work out, right?

It can work out. We've had some of our bizarrely some of our strongest quarters um not in terms of raw traffic, but in terms of conversions and uh sales and and sponsorships. So, uh it's not all doom and gloom out there. So everybody just uh hang in, keep going.

Right. Amazing. Congratulations on that. Thank you.

Thank you. Thank you. All right, Kevin. Well, any uh any parting remarks before we head out?

Yeah. Yeah. I think I just want to build on what we spoke about before. Now is the time again to like change some things up.

Um, I also want to say like I'm I'm hearing a lot of very concerned SEOs um concerned about how do I tell this story and like how do I manage quote unquote my boss or leadership in this time where traffic is down and stuff and I want to say like I want to I want to send some courage out like this this is like one of the again like the biggest shift that I live through in my life. Uh I'm I I would bet it's probably for most if not all of the uh listeners and and and the audience. And so this is maybe the time to kind of like make some changes and have some, you know, grace about finding a new playbook. I'm seeing a lot of SEOs like very scared about this.

And I think sure, like I I get the initial fear, but again, like this is such a substantial fundamental change. Like it's okay for things to look different and okay for you to not have the answer right now. Like and I I would encourage you to push back on leadership and say, "Look, nobody knows. Nobody knows the answer right now.

We can experiment. We can learn together. But don't expect me to quoteunquote turn traffic around when all of this is crumbling. Exactly.

Yeah. It's really important for people to focus on new metrics um that aren't just, you know, UVs or PVs. It's really uh people need to pick new metrics. That's, you know, and things that are going to tell a better success story and that are going to be more inherent to the company's bottom line and goals.

Yes. So, yeah. Exactly. All right.

Well, thank you so much for your time today. And um what's your URL? What do you want to promote? Yeah, growth-ashmemo.com or just search for growthmemo.

Um that's my baby. That's really where I put in all my braines. So, that's the only one. Awesome.

And we're at search engine.com. And we'll see you next time. Thanks, Kevin. Bye, everyone.

Thanks for having me.