# Google AI Mode vs Traditional Search

* **Expert:** Aleyda Solis
* **Video ID:** LGvbEHyX5oE
* **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LGvbEHyX5oE
* **Date Published:** 2025-07-01

---

## Transcript

The latest in SEO with today's edition of SEO for FOMO to launder read. Let's go through the top news, the hottest news from the last edition of SEO for to go through them with me, I have today the wonderful Roxanna Stingu, who's the head of SEO and search at Alam. Hello Roxanna, how are you? Hey Alita, hello everybody.

Thank you very much for joining me. Before starting though, I want to say thanks to our today's sponsor who's similar web. Thank you very much for your sponsorship. Let's start with the first news which is pretty much the comparison that I created of key traditional versus AI search differences.

A visual comparison to highlight those where there's an actual difference. So we have search behavior from short keyword based one-off queries with high navigational intent to AI search long conversational base multi-term queries and I created infographics like this to show it more clearly in this particular case it's very straightforward to understand though however there are other cases like the query handling right like a single query match to the query find out multiple queries matches that we know that AI mode and also other AI search platforms use. So that also changes optimization target which is another thing that I wanted to highlight. And finally the results presentations that goes beyond of what we have seen the 10 blue links and the implications to the expectations in traffic and engagement from users.

And at the end I created this overall infographic here to go through all of these aspects that you can download to have with you to share with your clients and so on. I believe that we have seen especially I see this a lot in social like this very extreme stances of nothing is changing is just the old usual SEO but apply in a little bit different way and then the other extreme takes about SEO is that this is the new thing completely new thing I am more blended in the middle let's say of these two extreme takes I'm I'm in the middle as well with that I can't I can't decide either way because there's good pros and cons in both sides so It's really hard to take one side and go with it. But seeing traditional search versus AI mode side by side, yes, it looks very different. And I can see why a lot of people say this is not the same thing.

But if you kind of go back to basics like when we started doing SEO back in the day and you think about it, the concepts are somewhat similar. It's the method that changed. So to give you an example, the query found out which is like a new terminology. It comes with AI, it's LLM specific, whatever.

If you think about 10 years ago when Google put out hummingbird, it was taking your search query and then finding synonymous queries and then doing like a bunch of them to find you different results that were a bit more relevant. And the the query fan out is not just synonymous, it's also just closely related as well. So it's like a that next step in the evolution of search but the concept is pretty much the same. You take a search and you expand it which hummingbird tried to do so you know badly that at that point although 10 years ago that was the best improvement in search we've seen in a long time.

It it just shows how much technology evolves while keeping certain search concepts the same but bringing methods that can do it so much better like the query fan out and I think it's kind of the same with the passage ranking. Google's done that before but now it just does it to a different level. 100%. I love that you bring these thoughts regarding concepts versus practicalities because conceptually though like most of this were already applied or used in SEOs but in different ways and different ranges and because of those differences the impact that we will see and we are already seeing a little bit of the outcome of the type of engagement the type of traffic that AI search and LLM refer is very different than the one that we are used to in traditional search results.

results that difference in interface and those differences in how the links are placed or where they are placed change the impact completely and the engagement of the user and as a consequence and we need to rethink of how we approach things too because what we were doing is not generating the impact that we wanted and this what we also see right now due to Google AI overviews all of the impressions going on the traffic going down it's like you cannot expect just to continue pushing and doing more of the same and expecting it to go up again. So how do you rethink what you're doing to diversify the next resource that I want to go through is the sandbrush AI mode comparison versus traditional search and other LLMs on one hand now we have I think that little by little better understanding how all of the pieces fit together and then we have this data this should allow us to make better decisions this research that was done by Eugene Levvin we see that a few of the key findings are that AI mode prefer sidebar linking. 92% of AI mode responses feature sidebar showing 7% of unique domains. These links had a 51% domain overlap with 32% overlap with the top 10 results.

These results are grounded from Google's index but not surprised to see this very high overlap. Organic links still matter. 7% of IMO queries where additional links appear below the response. uh there was 89% domain overlap and 80% URLs overlap with Google's top 10 search results and then again ready dominates from a citation standpoint which unfortunately we know there is attached to a platform like this one the query intent affects the response length may show queries trigger responses twice as longer thanformational ones here something interesting regarding intent is that there was also another piece in the newsletter last week regarding the new type of intent we can see in AI mode which is the one that is sometimes called task oriented or generative that realistically is the most popular one at the end of the day and far less navigational as we see in traditional search results and then that AI mode looks more similar to chat GPT than AI overviews and this again due to the format the interface and the overall type of answers that it provides something you said a bit earlier.

You said that you know the top of the funnel do we need to still optimize for it and we need to because that's kind of helping us with our branding and everything. And then if you scroll to the first chart that was shared here it shows the overlap between AI search and traditional Google search and then perplexity has like the biggest overlap there. It kind of makes sense. There was an interview with Lex Friedman and the CEO of Perplexity and they were talking about how does Perplexity work and pretty much perplexity's ranking system prioritizes sources based on combination of factors just like Google does but they also include authority, trustworthiness already it sounds like uh freshness which we know Google always had a freshness boost and then of course a relevancy to users query which Of course, it's a search engine at the end of the day.

So, it was somewhat expected that it would match so closely to Google. So, this kind of works well for the people saying it's the same search. You don't really have to do anything different because in this case, yeah, you you do it well for Google. It will help you with perplexity as well.

But then some of the other AI engines were not really overlapping as much. So there's differences of course and the more we can understand those the more we know what to do to optimize for them. We need to recall how Google AI mode was tested very few months like three months or so. Like I think that this was the shortest period of time that I have seen Google testing something like this with AI overviews.

They had much more time. I believe this because of course there's pressure for them to compete with a similar product that can be considered like a competitor to Chad GPT but also at the end of the day they need to test a few things out to balance a little bit the act of trying to keep sending traffic to a diversity of domains to a diversity of sites. They also have the index of information like the other players that have had to practically like partner with other parties in order to have access to this sort of information like OpenAI Ch with Microsoft but Google has all this data directly. In any case, I believe that it will highly highly depend on the monetization.

How well they are able to monetize this new AI mode with ads. Let's move on to the next resource. This insightful and very welltime guide from Glen Gabe about how AI search currently drives less than 1% of the traffic to most sites. Google is still dominant and yeah, it's very risky to overlook it or ignoring it completely just because we're chasing the shiny new AI search thing, right?

While at least for a while until Google potentially decides to push it as the full mode after testing it much much better than what they have so far, this won't happen. So I think it is a very welltime article showing also how to monitor and configure. There is this video Dana Dto Masio shared this how to to show us how to monitor to track AI traffic and and yes it's trivial if compared with the one that we currently get from organic search results and I have also seen many decision makers literally have a completely different attitude on investing on AI tracking search tracking platforms or AI search related priorities based don't what usually attracts their attention in SEO while SEO still brings 99% of things right I think it is an important reminder here of it's good to prepare and start testing and be proactive with AI search but we cannot overlook what is already bringing the value and it is important to configure well this also in our own analytics because unfortunately this is much more difficult to see with the lack of specific segmentation by Google and the Google search console. So this type of configuration is fundamental for sure and then based on that we should be able to make better informed decisions and prioritizations in our efforts accordingly.

I think this article is is worth reading just because Glenn has a way of of kind of storytelling and sharing his experience, but also because it acts as a word of warning that you shouldn't put all resource towards AI traffic because it's not yet there. It's not yet going to be the majority of your traffic. It's not yet a leading channel. So, you still have to pay attention to traditional search because that's probably still making up quite a big percentage of your traffic.

And even even though AI engines will get more and more people to your website, as you said, like things like Chad GPT, it's not really an AI engine. It's more like a virtual assistant that has access to a search engine. So the the intent of users using it will be different from what you're getting from other search engines. So you can't really replace one with the other.

You just have to start building for both. Also taking into account that a lot of what we're already doing in SEO sets a really good ground on what matters for visibility right yet another reason of why we should continue taking care of an SEO and also doing things in the more mature sophisticated ways for example developing and building campaigns well citations also matter as we can see here they don't need to be direct links right the authority the relevance of where is his place and the sentiments all of that is definitely a much more direct impact now but yes it's not that we should have been doing that in any case in the past already right and this take us to the last resource of today which is the coverage by Roger Monty in search engine journal about Google's new move vera algorithm that improves search speed and performs better on complex query this is an announcement of go on a new multi vector retrieval algorithm called movea. This new algorithm uh intends to speed up retrieval and ranking improving accuracy too and can be used for search recommener systems like the one of YouTube and natural language processing as well. Just in case there's an explanation about what is vector embeddings and how move focus on solving problems in them.

recently beginning with the landmark colber paper mult vector models which produce a set of embeddings per data have achieved mark superior performance for I tax. So here the very challenge is the bottleneck from a performance standpoint which is what it seems to have been tackled with the new algorithm. So besides SEO I also do search which is not the digital search but it's more a website search. So I kind of handled the search engine from Alam that has over 400 products going into it.

And once you start building a search engine and trying to understand it, you realize every search engine will try to solve the same problems. And then search engines like Google having more money and engineers and everything, they will solve them in a more complex way uh with greater results. uh but then maybe an e-commerce search engine being limited to just a website will solve it in a in a less complex way. I find that this kind of algorithm just solves one problem and that problem is the cost and performance of search.

So you always want results fast and accurate, but also you don't want them to cost too much. And I can imagine with Google having so many users, that is a big big problem, right? When you have like a big corpus of documents that you're searching from, the bigger it is, the least accurate your results will be. you do like an an approximate neighbor um algorithm search where you kind of get the result, but you don't check every single document to make sure you haven't missed anything.

And when you're Google and you have results in the million, that's more than perfect. It's enough. But if you're like a small website searching in some um help files for instance, you want to be as accurate as possible. So you do a a nearest neighbor algorithm search instead that literally searches every single document to find the one thing you might be missing.

So Google tried to do um a nearest neighbor KN&N algorithm search on a big corpus and this is what MOA feels to me solved because if you do that kind of very specific search on so many documents it would take forever it would cost a lot. No user would wait for that result. So they found a way to still search that big universe of documents by making it smaller to search in. And that's all they did.

They instead of having millions of vectors coming back, they found a way to concatenate those vectors and kind of bring them sum them up or average them into a single vector. So they reduced millions of documents to maybe tens or hundreds. So when you have fewer documents, then you can do a more accurate search that's more performant. So they solve that problem of performance and accuracy versus cost.

And this article from Roger says, "We don't know if this is in search yet. Let me tell you, it should be because it's more efficient and probably more cost efficient. So why wouldn't it be in search?" Yeah, this is definitely something that actually solve a problem that exists in search for sure. It's important to take into account that there wasn't an announcement of the release yet.

They probably have like a testing phase where we don't even know it's happening and then they will have an official release to search and so on. But that doesn't mean we're not seeing results coming from this yet. We just don't know it. It was definitely the best read this year.

And I love how you went through all of this in depth so you could share it today and your analysis. Quite insightful. Really appreciate it. And I really appreciate all of your insights.

Uh Roxanna, it has been a pleasure to have you today. Remember that you don't need to wait until the next week to watch our SEO for you read. You can see the latest news in real time by going to the SEO for news. You should also totally subscribe to the newsletter.

And I want to thank again to Similar Web who's our today's sponsor. And as you can see, it's a tool that I'm using every day a lot lately, especially whether AI related insights, problems, information, traffic engagement. Very, very useful to better understand the differences, the nuances, the impact that AI traffic is actually having on our sites and competitors also to identify opportunities. So, go and take a look at it.

Roxanna, thank you again. Remember to like the video if you like it. Remember to subscribe to the channel and until the next edition.