# Stop Assuming That Producing Content is a Necessary Component of Modern SEO

* **Expert:** Jono Alderson
* **Video ID:** avASDgtw9k0
* **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=avASDgtw9k0
* **Date Published:** 2025-03-17

---

## Transcript

Hi, I&amp;#39;m Jono Alderson, and this
is SEO in 2025. Very exciting. Jono, what&amp;#39;s your number one SEO
tip for 2025? My tip is to stop writing
articles which might come as a shock to many people, because
that&amp;#39;s one of the things that SEO does, right?

But I think we
need to stop assuming that producing content is a kind of
fundamental or even necessary part of modern SEO. I think we
all need to take a look at what our content marketing strategies
and playbooks look like, and really ask the questions of what
is the role of content and articles in a world of ChatGPT
and AI results and where Google can synthesize answers without
needing our inputs? I mean, that casts some interesting questions
about what we&amp;#39;re doing and what Earning our content marketing
playbook. That sounds fairly code looks like.

drastic. Yeah. Well, I think a lot of us
are kind of quietly doing stuff that probably doesn&amp;#39;t make a ton
of sense anymore. So I did a bunch of research, and I was
looking around and I picked, I looked at dentist websites as an
example.

Yeah, I think you could just as easily pick butchers or
bakers or anything, but every single dentist site I looked at
had a really a tedious blog that was quite clearly outsourced to
a local agency that had an article about &amp;#39;top eight tips
for cosmetic dentistry and teeth whitening,&amp;#39; etc. But if you zoom
out, how many dentists are there in every city in the world? Of
course, how many countries? Right?

Every single one of those
websites has the same mediocre article that somebody has done
some keyword research. They&amp;#39;ve spotted a gap. They think they
can write one that&amp;#39;s slightly better than their competitors,
and yet, in aggregate, we&amp;#39;ve created 10 million pages that
none of which serve a purpose, all of which are fundamentally
the same, none of which are very good, none of which add new
value to the corpse of the Internet. So if you&amp;#39;re a search
engine that has finite resources and increasingly can just solve
problems without needing to ingest new, non original
content, What&amp;#39;s the point of all those pages?

And it&amp;#39;s not just
those kind of topics, it&amp;#39;s everything. It&amp;#39;s so much of what
the SEO industry produces, either because agencies are paid
to produce some numbber of articles per month for blog, or
because businesses think that having a blog and writing these
kinds of pages is a fundamental part of SEO, because they&amp;#39;ve
been told that if they research the keywords and they write the
content and they do a better enough job than their
competitors, they&amp;#39;ll get some visits, and they can convert
those. All of that stops working because Google can just answer
those kinds of queries in situ, any industry or kind of topic
where the information is mostly immutable. So recipes are a
really good example of this.

There aren&amp;#39;t many new types of
foods or ingredients entering the market, and Google has
enough evidence of every combination of things to just be
able to solve problems and even synthesize new answers when
there are new combinations of things that there&amp;#39;s no value in
me writing yet another lasagna recipe or yet another article on
teeth whitening. But these problems are solved, and yet so
much of what our industry does is continue to solve them over
and over again. It&amp;#39;s not valuable, and it certainly won&amp;#39;t
drive traffic. I remember having a
conversationv about lasagna last time, actually.

That
conversation go back to SEO in 2024. Nice. Need some new examples? No, no.

I brought in my own
interpretation of how I use that particular example. But let&amp;#39;s,
let&amp;#39;s not go there again. I like the use of &amp;#39;immutable&amp;#39; as well. That&amp;#39;s a nice word, word of the day.

So, content. Are we really
at the stage then where it&amp;#39;s not worth it, stop publishing
content, it doesn&amp;#39;t work? I think there&amp;#39;s definitely room
to publish good content. And publish is a key word, right?

Publishers 20, 2015-ish, everyone started saying, become
a publisher, and the whole industry misinterpreted that to
mean write lots of articles. When actually you look at
successful publishers, what they do is original research by
experts. They break news, they visit the places, they interact
with, the things. A lot of what Google&amp;#39;s looking for in those
kind of EEAT criterias.

It describes the act of publishing,
yet very little of SEO actually publishes, they just produce. And I think if you feel like you close that gap, there is
definitely value. And in fact, one of the things that Google is
definitely looking for, and one of the things which will be safe
to a degree, from this AI revolution, is if you can
publish, if you can move quickly, if you can produce
stuff at a better depth than Google can just synthesize, if
you can identify, discover, create new information and new
value. There is always space for that kind of content, but
there&amp;#39;s definitely no value if what you&amp;#39;re doing is saying,
&amp;#39;Every month we will produce four articles focusing on a
given keyword,&amp;#39; when all 10,000 of our competitors employ
somebody who looks like us to produce the same article, that&amp;#39;s
not going to do anything.

So in your words, how do we or
what metrics do we use to critically assess the role of
content in a world where Google can synthesize answers to
increasingly large numbers of queries? Yeah, it&amp;#39;s really tricky,
because the kind of content that we&amp;#39;re producing there is going
to change. It&amp;#39;s not going to be &amp;#39;the eight tips for X&amp;#39; and the
hope that 2% of that audience convert. It&amp;#39;s not going to work
anymore.

You&amp;#39;re going to need to go much higher up the funnel and
much earlier into the research cycle. And the role of content
will need to change, to not try and convert people who are at
the point of purchase already to make a decision, but to
influence what happens next for the people who are at the very
start of those journeys. So what you can do is, for example, I
know this is radical, but audience research finds out what
kind of questions people in your sector had six months before
they purchased, or the kind of frustrations and challenges. What, what do they wish they&amp;#39;d known when they&amp;#39;d started and
engaged upon those processes?

But is there data out there to
show that, or do you just need to have conversations with your
customers, yeah? Yeah, yep, yeah, definitely. So
you can research at scale, you can do the analysis, you can do
conventional research and qualitative and quantitative
metrics from the side of that, you can look at things like
brand recall and brand preference. And this tends to
look much more like conventional marketing than it does this
digital marketing world where we&amp;#39;ve had and especially you
look at the kind of there&amp;#39;s increasing belief that
attribution as a whole is a bit of a pseudoscience, and that as
the technology gets harder to track all the pieces together,
it becomes increasingly impossible to produce an
overarching picture of what are the influences of all of these
pieces.

So you&amp;#39;ve got to go back to conventional marketing. You&amp;#39;ve got to go back to splitting tests by locale and
doing before and after. You&amp;#39;ve got to look at actually, does
this influence what people think and feel about our brand and our
logo and our record? Rather than going, how many clicks did we
get out of how many impressions and how many sales?

Because if
you&amp;#39;re competing there, you&amp;#39;re probably too late. You need to
be influencing people much higher at the funnel. So yeah,
all everything we&amp;#39;ve ever learned in the 1950s and 60s
about marketing, that&amp;#39;s how we measure what good SEO looks
like. And maybe we need to step back from some of the more
conventional measures.

Well, do we try to optimize for
bottom of funnel keyword phrases first? I mean, it seems as if
we&amp;#39;re going further up the funnel, there&amp;#39;s going to be less
ability to measure conversion rates, to have some kind of
attribution on that particular person, where they initially
came from. Surely we need to actually ensure that everything
bottom of funnel was optimized Yeah, sure, yeah. And you can
try and using other channels first?

will definitely help that. But
with SEO, it&amp;#39;s going to get harder and harder. You&amp;#39;re going
to be competing for an increasingly small pool of
people. Because if you or your competitors are doing this
right, when those people are searching, their behavior
changes.

So rather than doing 10 wooly searches and eventually
picking where I convert. I do one or two searches. I have a
great experience with the brand, and then I remember and prefer
and recall their brand when I&amp;#39;m at the point of purchase, and I
no longer go to Google and click on all these other sites. So the
bottom of the funnel, to a degree, takes care of itself.

That said, yes, you should definitely make sure that you
have a funnel that works, and people can and want to check out
and so forth. But you&amp;#39;re going to be competing against Amazon
directly. You&amp;#39;re going to be competing against Google&amp;#39;s own
properties. You&amp;#39;re going to be competing on a race to the
bottom with, you look at Google Merchant centers increasing kind
of merge with the organic results that bottom of the slice
of ecommerce space is going to get so hard to compete in, and
so much of it&amp;#39;s going to come down to raw price, delivery time
frames, return policies, etc, the actual ability to go, we&amp;#39;re
going to write a page of compelling content about our
product there isn&amp;#39;t going to stand out and isn&amp;#39;t going to get
cut through.

It&amp;#39;s really super hard, and you don&amp;#39;t want to be
trying to, you don&amp;#39;t want to be about being the cheapest. I guess this means that we have
to think more about landing pages, about calls to action,
and about getting people on our email list, or whatever form of
communication they prefer now, because if people aren&amp;#39;t ready
to make a purchase from you quite yet, you&amp;#39;ve got to keep up
that communication, or at least have that customer touch point
so you can reach out to them in the future. Yeah, definitely. I think
building an audience is one of the things that SEO definitely
can do, and probably do more cost effectively and better
than, say, paid search or other channels.

I think if you&amp;#39;re
solving the needs of a broad audience, quite high up the
funnel, you can definitely collect a bunch of email
addresses off that. You can definitely build that kind of
preference and then even market them through other ways. And SEO
becomes how you, SEO gives you permission to access the
audience, and then builds that audience, and then other
channels are how you push them across the line. I think we made
a grave mistake around 20-, 2017, 2018 we started obsessing
about this idea of SEO, good SEO being, being the last click,
like we can really prove to Google that we were a great
result if we satisfy the query, because people didn&amp;#39;t search
afterwards.

I think that&amp;#39;s far too late. I think we missed a
chance to focus on being the first click, like the moment
people set out on these research journeys. Yet get in there, use
SEO to capture their interest, to win hearts and mind, and yet
capture their email address and then nudge them through other
channels. I think that&amp;#39;s the future of where we need to be
looking not articles that just solve the same problem over and
over again.

Articles, blog posts, &amp;#39;how tos,&amp;#39;
medium length blog posts, is there a place for having your
own blog nowadays? Oh, that&amp;#39;s interesting. Yeah,
definitely. I think a huge part of what we see Google looking
for in all the recent updates is authentic, human expert opinion,
difference of opinion of new information.

But I think so
often the corporate blog, or the company blog is an anonymous
dumping ground for the kinds of content that don&amp;#39;t fit anywhere
else, right? Somebody scoped and built a website, and they went,
we need product pages, we need service pages. And then we did
about page. And then a year later, they got an SEO agency,
and they said, &amp;#39;Actually, we need somewhere to put content.&amp;#39;
So you end up with this kind of weird blog thing that&amp;#39;s a mix of
outdated company announcements and all sorts.

There can be a
much better version of that, your C-Suite can have names and
faces and demonstrable expertise. Your SEO strategy
might put some budget aside for hiring talent, rather than just
churning out content and really using that as a platform to say
something. And that might mean targeting a smaller niche or
audience than just kind of being broad and inoffensive to
everybody. But that&amp;#39;s again, how you win in conventional
marketing.

You pick those fights and you stand by. The best
examples we have success in kind of startup companies, etc, are
led by opinionated, big personalities, and they use
their blogs and platforms to talk about their experiences and
their preferences, etc. And that works really, really well, not
just in SEO, but more broadly, as a kind of brand building
thing. So yeah, there&amp;#39;s definitely a place for that done
right.

Absolutely a blog as a way to
publish and distribute is not a communication style. Yeah, yeah, yeah, not always. Just to kind of take your your press releases and turn them
into a shouty thing, definitely. Yeah, definitely.

Okay, great. So where does AI fit into content in well now and and
moving forwards? Because obviously, if you&amp;#39;re wanting to
focus on authoritative content, if you&amp;#39;re wanting to be original
in your thinking, then can you get any assistance from AI? Or
will that perhaps just turn you into a bland same as everybody
publisher?

This is the risk, right? That as
soon as you start going, as soon as you start using these tools,
they are trained on the data that&amp;#39;s already out there, and
will continue to be trained on the data that&amp;#39;s being produced,
a lot of which is crappy blog articles saying the same thing
over and over again. So you&amp;#39;d find a way to break out of that. I would definitely avoid using things like ChatGPT for writing
or producing content.

I think you&amp;#39;re just going to get &amp;#39;word
soup&amp;#39;. If you&amp;#39;re very clever with your prompting, you might
extract some original ideas, but they&amp;#39;re going to get lost in the
noise. I think it can be super useful as a writing tool, either
for summarizing or maybe extrapolating, also quite useful
in the research process. So if you&amp;#39;ve got access to data, you
can say, upload this spreadsheet and that spreadsheet and go look
at the stock market and the weather patterns and find me
some interesting potential narratives.

It&amp;#39;s good for that
kind of exploration. Um, but yeah, I would, I would consider
that all of your competitors are going to be throwing their
interns at ChatGPT and saying, how many articles can we
produce? So what velocity to fill out our blogs? And a lot of
the changes we&amp;#39;re seeing in Google might well be
anticipating that future, right?

All of the EEAT stuff, all of
the product review stuff, is designed to combat a world where
there&amp;#39;s an infinite amount of recursive nonsense. So
definitely avoid the temptation to be using the tools just to
produce, use them as assistants and muses to bounce ideas around
with, and then do the heavy thinking yourself. Muses, recursive nonsense. I
love Jono phraseology.

Can we still sit down at the beginning
of the year and actually come up with a content marketing
strategy for the whole year, or do we have to be a little bit
more reactive nowadays because of perhaps technology, but also
because of the necessity to produce something that&amp;#39;s
relevant to that moment? Oh, that&amp;#39;s super interesting. I
think you can still plan to a degree, right? You will have a
broad understanding of your audiences and the kinds of
problems you have, like my webcam just goes all over the
place.

At some point I will get irritated enough to Google this,
and the company who produces it should have anticipated that and
produce content that solves that and recommends the right
solution. Talking about content that&amp;#39;s
rubbish content for an audio Yeah, that&amp;#39;s true. That&amp;#39;s true. They&amp;#39;re having a much better listener.

experience than I am of this. Um, yeah, you can do the kind of broad what are my pillars, and
what kinds of topics should I... To a degree you&amp;#39;re going to get
a feel for, okay, if we sell and let&amp;#39;s go back to if we sell
cupcakes, we probably shouldn&amp;#39;t be trying to compete on a car
engine repair, right? So you can determine where those peripheral
fields are and how far out you should be strengthened out what
your core topics, what kind of things shouldn&amp;#39;t you have
opinion on?

Have opinions on? Should you be political, etc,
but then, yeah, you definitely want to reserve a significant
amount of headspace for being topical. Because again, one of
the ways you can compete with the AI swamp is by being faster
to market with news and breaking information, etc, and just
staying ahead. There will always be a delay in the training sets
and the speed with which those systems can know about news
stuff.

So staying ahead of that curve is useful. But then also,
yeah, as markets change, as things change, as preferences
add, as holidays occur, as there are global events, you don&amp;#39;t
want everything to try and be news tracking, but you
definitely want to try and be relevant. And it might be that&amp;#39;s
a great place to use AI. You can say, &amp;#39;Okay, this global event
has occurred.&amp;#39; This thing happened in the Olympics,
there&amp;#39;s this global trend appearing, and we&amp;#39;ve launched
this new product.

Can you take all of this soup and unpick it? Actually find some interesting narratives, some ideas, some
slides that we might not have come up with, that aren&amp;#39;t
obvious, or also our partner brand is doing this thing, and
with that, yeah, yeah, those kinds of synergies are quite
easy to discover with those systems, because they&amp;#39;ll spot
those patterns. And so yeah, reserve some headspace for that. Unpicking soup.

There&amp;#39;s a phrase
that I didn&amp;#39;t think I&amp;#39;d hear. Yeah, me neither. If an SEO is struggling for
time, what should they stop doing right now so they can
spend more time doing what you suggest in 2025? Oh, controversially, everything
else, right?

Like all the link building, all the digital PR,
the reporting, the keyword research, the blog posts, the
directory submit, whatever it is you&amp;#39;re doing that isn&amp;#39;t trying
to authentically help your audience to solve their
problems, by connecting them with the helpful content that
you produce and influencing their propensity to then prefer
you whatever you&amp;#39;re doing that&amp;#39;s not that isn&amp;#39;t SEO. It&amp;#39;s just an
echo of kind of yesterday&amp;#39;s tactics that still just about
work, but that is the heart of what we need to be doing, is
whether that&amp;#39;s content, whether it&amp;#39;s tech or whatever it is,
what we need to be spending our time and energy doing is
connecting our problem solving to an audience in a way that
generates value for that business. That&amp;#39;s the heart of
what SEO is, and I&amp;#39;ll have always been but we&amp;#39;ve kind of
hacked around the side by producing articles and filling
up blog posts. So yeah, drop whatever you&amp;#39;re doing that&amp;#39;s not
a flavor of that, and do that instead.

Jono Alderson is an Independent
Technical SEO Consultant, and you can find them over at
jonoalderson.com. Jono, thanks so much for being part of SEO in
2025. Thank you very much. My treat,
lovely.

I&amp;#39;ve been your host, David Bain. Get your copy of SEO in 2025, the book, over at SEOin2025.com.